
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study explored the beliefs and practices of content instructors teaching in English-medium, international branch campuses (IBCs) in terms of supporting students’ academic language development. Previous studies have shown how content instructors, particularly in STEM fields, do not see teaching language as part of their role in the classroom and do not attach importance to it. However, students in IBC contexts often need more language support. I surveyed IBC content instructors from various disciplines regarding their beliefs about providing language support for students. I also observed instructors’ classes and interviewed them. On the survey, STEM instructors showed less of disposition toward providing language support for students than liberal arts instructors did; however, both STEM and liberal arts instructors were observed providing language support in various ways in their classes. I propose that IBCs create multidisciplinary faculty learning communities on supporting students’ academic language development.  
What the researchers did
 
● The context of the study was Qatar’s Education City, which hosts six North American international branch campuses 
● 70 STEM instructors and 31 Liberal Arts instructors participated in the study. 
● Data were collected from three sources: a short online survey, video-recorded classroom observations, and stimulated-recall interviews. 
● The survey responses were coded in terms of knowledge of students, knowledge of pedagogy, knowledge of contextual factors, as well as parts of appraisal theory, to examine whether there was attitude, judgment or disposition displayed toward providing language support, and whether it was positive or negative. 
● Video-recordings and classroom observation notes were reviewed for occurrences of language support practices and these segments were discussed with instructors during stimulated recall interviews. 
What the researchers found
 
● The majority of participants indicated that they did spend time providing language support for their students. 
● All the Liberal Arts instructor participants stated that they focused “a lot” or “sometimes” on providing language support for students. 
● Nearly half of the STEM instructor participants stated that they focused “very little” or “almost never” on providing language support for students. 
● From the survey responses, four main beliefs emerged as to why some STEM instructors spent little to no time providing language support for students: 1) no need observed, 2) no time in the semester, 3) not their responsibility, and 4) difficult to know if students needed help. 
● STEM instructors’ beliefs did not necessarily align with their practices. Both STEM and Liberal Arts instructors were observed providing language support to students in class and STEM instructors provided more extra-linguistic support. 
Things to consider
 
● Content instructors in international branch campuses have often had little to no opportunity to reflect on how they support students’ academic language development. 
● All instructors need to share the responsibility for teaching discipline-specific academic language and supporting multilingual students. 
● Instructors teaching in international branch campuses could benefit from multidisciplinary faculty learning communities on supporting students’ academic language development. 