
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many migrant English language learners in Australia experience foreign language anxiety, which is a negative emotional reaction that they can experience when speaking English. This anxiety can often lead to negative consequences in their interactions such as forgetfulness, feelings of isolation, and avoidance behaviours, and emotional outbursts such as crying, which can deeply impact the daily lives of migrants in Australia. To overcome these negative emotions and behaviours, we argue that there needs to be more safe spaces that encourage the practice of translanguaging. Translanguaging is when speakers use all the languages and non-verbal resources they know fluidly, in order to communicate more effectively, which can often be used to stop communication blocks or difficulties that can cause feelings of anxiety. Through using Linguistic Ethnography to examine the experiences of migrant participants, we found that safe educational and emotional spaces for English language learners are important for allowing them to share their lived experiences, problems, and emotional expressions, which can help in alleviating the negative emotional consequences of anxiety while speaking. These spaces can then help with their feelings of belonging and can provide them with more opportunities to integrate into society. 
What the researchers did
 
● We investigated the experiences of four adult migrant English learners, who came from a larger pool of 150 adult migrant participants. 
● The project used the methodology of Linguistic Ethnography, using interviews and focus group discussions to learn about the participants’ experiences over a long period of time. We recruited these participants from public libraries, migration and cultural centres, and universities in Australia. 
● We analysed the interview and focus group data, searching for instances where the participants used translanguaging (moving between different languages). We then categorised into themes the emotions/behaviours these participants showed or described during these instances, such as ‘anxiety’, ‘forgetfulness’, ‘isolation’ and ‘avoidance’. 
● After this, we further analysed the interview and focus group data focussing on the larger context, as well as the participants’ unspoken communication such as their gestures and facial expressions, to better understand the meaning behind what they were saying. 
What the researchers found
 
● We found that safe spaces that allow migrants who are learning English to speak in the language that suits them best in that moment, means that they are better able to talk about and manage their emotional issues. 
● Flexible language use such as translanguaging has the power to temporarily alleviate language anxiety and emotions such as fear, distress, and embarrassment. It also provides opportunities for these learners to express their full cultural and linguistic identities, and feel a sense of belonging in a safe environment. 
Things to consider
 
● We outlined two implications for the education and health sectors. In education, interactions in languages other than English can enable English learners to speak more freely, allowing for richer and deeper classroom engagement, more profound ideas, the cultivation of positive feelings such as trust and safety, and the alleviation of negative emotions such as fearfulness, forgetfulness, and avoidance behaviours. 
● In the health sector, the encouragement of flexible language use in psychology sessions can promote better mental health of patients who are able to freely speak their own languages to overcome their emotional and mental health issues. 