
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Twenty-first-century teachers are expected to be ‘lifelong learners’ in order to be able to guide their students’ engagement with self-directed learning and autonomous thinking. This study investigated learner autonomy, self-direction and goal commitment in language learning. The results showed that they are all related to academic achievement and to each other. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study took place during the spring term of the 2019-2020 academic year. 
● The researchers recruited 248 first- to fourth-year English-major undergraduate students from seven state universities in Turkey. 
● The students completed a self-reported online survey on o autonomous learning (a situation in which learners take charge of their learning and work within and beyond the classroom), o self-directed learning (a learning process in which learners take the initiative to decide what and how they will learn), o goal commitment (being determined to reach a goal), o and open-ended questions. 
What the researchers found
 
● Autonomy, self-direction and goal commitment are all related to each other. Each of them is also related to academic achievement. 
● Female students had higher means on the autonomy, self-direction, and goal commitment measures. 
● The older the language learners, the more likely they were autonomous. 
● Learners perceived themselves as more autonomous as they progressed through their education at university. 
● Learners had an understanding of autonomy and self-direction literally, however, they failed to give specific examples over managing their own language learning process. 
Things to consider
 
● This study has confirmed the importance of language learners’ goal setting and commitment, independent learning and self-initiated control over their learning. 
● Learners should also be involved in language learning through inside and outside the classroom activities, that is, they should take more responsibility over their learning. 