
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A key approach to developing a second language is to have learners engage in oral communication activities in the classroom; as such there is much research on this topic. Advice for teachers based on this research often focuses on good classroom management practices, such as adapting activities to the cultural needs of the students, lowering anxiety levels, boosting students confidence, improving classroom atmosphere, and choosing relevant and interesting topics. This advice positions learners as being dependent on teachers to improve their classroom participation, but it doesn’t enable learners themselves to take charge of their own learning. Therefore, this research examines what successful learners do to enable themselves to talk in the classroom. What the researcher did 
● The researcher had students interview another student about the efforts to participate in an oral communication classroom activity with the following steps: o Video recorded learners engaged in spoken classroom activities. o Had students review the video of the activity in pairs. o The interviewee participants rated their own talk-related motivation/confidence/anxiety during the activity using specially designed software. o The interviewer student used the ratings and the video to guide an interview focusing on talk-related difficulties. o After the interview was completed the students switched roles. o Students shared their findings in the form of a poster presentation in the following class. What the researcher found 
● Students positioned themselves as talk-positive or talk-reticent. 
● Students viewed the interviews and presentation as an opportunity to: o Self-improve by copying and emulating other students o Improve classroom relations through a process of rapprochement o Reassure themselves that other student also had difficulties in class 
● Students shared many strategies focusing on: improving their learning attitudes, thinking about how to monitor their participation, presentation strategies, discussion strategies, general study skills. 
● The talk-positive students orchestrated their strategy use in a way that the talk-reticent students did not: o First, they visualized a desirable talk-positive behavior at that moment-in-time o Second, they ‘reset’ their feelings to overcome negative thoughts and emotions o Third, they engaged in a follow-up action to overcome the current impasse. 
● Some student also reported being stimulated by the interviews to continual observe their peers’ good learning behaviors in subsequent classes. 
Things to consider
 
● Rapprochement as a pedagogical activity has not been previously explored, however, cooperative intentions and actions can improve group work; therefore, rapprochement should be explored further in the context of improving classroom participation.  
● Most talk-focused pedagogy teaches language functions; however, the learners here reported needing and using other skills such as management of group work (social strategy skills) and controlling their own talk-related learning behaviours (metacognitive strategies). 
● The more successful, talk-positive students had a clear three step approach to overcome difficulties [visualizing learning behaviours>resetting their feelings>consistent follow-up actions] which can be used to train other learners. 