
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Existing studies have documented second language (L2) learners’ development of pragmatic competence (ability to use language appropriately in context), particularly their ability to produce speech acts (e.g., making a request). Most studies have focused on learners’ use of linguistic forms in speech acts when documenting development. Other aspects such as prosody have been largely overlooked. Neglecting such aspects is serious because prosody plays a decisive role when conveying pragmatic meaning. This study fills this gap by tracing prosodic properties in L2 English learners’ speech acts. By analysing data from the novel perspective of prosody, the study intends to break new ground for conceptualizing pragmatic development, going beyond the analysis of linguistic forms. The results showed changes in prosody over time, but not all prosody features showed the same pattern. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 47 Japanese learners of English in an English-medium university in Japan (L2 learners) and 24 native speakers of English in a U.S. university (L1 speakers). 
● Learners completed a spoken task eliciting speech acts (request and opinion) three times over one academic year (8 months) at 3-4 month intervals. L1 speakers completed the task once. Sample task prompt (request): Tomorrow is the due date of a paper for Professor’s Lee’s history class. The paper is a 10-page assignment. You caught a cold, and you’ve written only two pages so far. You want to ask for two extra days to finish. What do you say to Professor Lee? 
● In addition to the speaking task, L2 learners completed two surveys, one assessing their orientation to English study and the other assessing their amount of target language contact in everyday situations. They also completed the TOEFL ITP® (proficiency exam). 
● Speech samples were analyzed for three prosody features: o Tone choice: rising tone, falling tone, and level tone o Pitch range: distance between the highest and lowest pitch o Prominence: number of words stressed  
What the researchers found
 
● A change in tone choices was observed only at the later time period (Time 2-3). 
● A change in prominence ratio was seen much earlier (Time 1-2) while no change was observed at the later period (Time 2-3). 
● A change in pitch range showed irregular patterns. Initially, learners’ pitch range increased (Time 1-2), but then it decreased at the later period (Time 2-3). 
● Proficiency and language contact affected the change in tone choice, but not other areas. 
Things to consider
 
● The study focused on one academic year. We can also ask what the development would look like over a longer time span?  
● The questions of why changes of prominence and pitch range were not affected by any of the individual and contextual factors warrants further investigation. 