
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A core question in Second Language Acquisition (SLA) is to what extent different learning conditions (incidental or explicit) help us to learn different sentence (syntactic) structures? Specifically, do different learning conditions lead to different learning performance on simple structures only, complex structures only, both of them, or neither? SLA researchers often use semiartificial language learning to investigate this question. Semi-artificial language learning combines the target second language (L2) structures with the lexical (word meaning) information from learners’ first language (L1). This allows learners to perform meaningful tasks without having to learn new words while researchers can control exactly what language the learners have been exposed to. However, in addition to their L1 lexicon, learners might also rely on their L1 sentence structures when learning novel structures, and structures similar in linguistic complexity could be perceived as different in difficulty depending on how close they are to the structures in learners’ L1. Findings about the effect of learning condition and linguistic complexity in one L1 background might therefore not apply to learners with another L1. In this study, we explored whether earlier findings about the role of learning condition and linguistic complexity in L2 learning could be replicated in another L1 background with a different syntax. Our study was based on an earlier study by Tagarelli et al. (2016), a study that combined English words with three target rules from German syntax (one simple structure and two complex structures). In the original study, English-L1 participants were either exposed to language input incidentally or taught the rules explicitly. The results showed that the learners who were taught the rules explicitly performed better, and all learners performed better on the simple rule than on the complex rules. Our results partially replicated the findings of the original study. Chinese-L1 participants who received explicit instruction also performed better than those who did not. However, the influence of Chinese syntax could have prevented the incidental group from rejecting the ungrammatical sentences on the simple rule, which would make the effect of linguistic complexity not meaningful. Our analysis also found considerable variability for individual learners and sentences, suggesting the limitation of the group-level analysis methods of the original study. 
What the researchers did
 
● 84 Chinese-L1, English-L2 intermediate learners aged between 19 and 21 were recruited. We randomly assigned the participants to two groups. No learner had learned German before. 
● We used the same semiartificial language as the original study, with all the stimuli translated to Chinese. 
● The training and testing sessions were identical to those in the original study. o incidental group - learners first judged the plausibility of 120 “scrambled” sentences in a training session. They were then told that all the “scrambled” sentences actually conformed to certain rules. In the testing sessions, the learners were asked to judge the grammaticality of 60 new sentences based on what they had learned from the training sentences. o explicit group – learners were taught the rules explicitly and were told to use the rules while doing the plausibility task. 
● Production data were also elicited after the testing session. Learners were given 10 expressions in Chinese and invited to use any number of them to create as many grammatical sentences as possible. 
What the researchers found
 
● The learners who were taught the rules explicitly performed better overall and on the simple structure. 
● Learners did not perform better on the simple structure than on the complex structures. 
● Production data suggested that the incidental group could have been affected by L1 transfer. 
● Considerable variability was found at the levels of individual participants and items. 
Things to consider
 
● We found that explicit instruction continued to exhibit an advantage over incidental exposure in the changed L1. Pedagogically, this lends further support to rule instruction, particularly for beginners and on simple structures. 
● We also found considerable individual learner and item level variability. Instructors are advised to attend to individual differences in L2 syntax acquisition, particularly in the correct rejection of ungrammatical sentences. 