
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many teachers of languages other than English (LOTEs) operate in “super-diverse” classrooms where they themselves are multilingual and they serve students from many different language backgrounds who are motivated to learn English over other languages. How do teachers promote self-regulated learning in these super-diverse classrooms? And does teachers’ degree of multilingualism matter? This study investigated these questions with a sample of teachers of Arabic in English-medium private secondary schools in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). 
What the researchers did
 
● An online questionnaire was administered in English and Arabic to 100 Emirati language teachers teaching compulsory Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) classes in secondary schools that followed the UK curriculum and served many multilingual expat students. 
● The teachers spoke only Arabic (N=16, monolingual), Arabic and English or some other language (N=60, bilingual), and Arabic and two or more languages (N=24, multilingual). Most were experienced female teachers in their 30s and 40s. 
What the researchers found
 
● The “tyranny” of English, students’ limited use of Arabic outside classrooms, challenging grammar, and student difficulty in coping with literacy were identified as main challenges. 
● A majority of teachers (61%) believed their students’ multilingualism was beneficial for Arabic learning, yet only 46% reported drawing on this multilingualism when teaching, mostly through word translation and instruction giving. 
● A majority of teachers (67%) were open to teaching dialects as part of fostering their students’ language awareness, be it Emirati because of its local value, Egyptian because of abundant materials, or Levantine dialects because of their closeness to MSA. 
● Bilingual and multilingual teachers drew considerably more on their students’ knowledge of other languages, and bilinguals used more Arabic-English crosslinguistic activities than multilinguals. 
● Unexpectedly, however, monolinguals placed a greater focus on grammar and culture, and possibly on dialects; and both monolingual and bilingual teachers reported encouraging more self-regulation strategies in their teaching than multilingual teachers. 
Things to consider
 In the future, observations of day-to-day teaching would yield better insights than just self-report. 
● 
● Monolingual teachers could participate in language learning experiences that augment their teaching repertoire and 
● 
● show them how to utilize students’ known languages to better learn Arabic. Introducing students to dialects in their MSA curriculum would motivate them to learn and use Arabic more frequently outside school. It would be helpful to create institutional training opportunities for teachers to learn how to use diverse Arabic-English crosslinguistic methods in the Arabic classroom. 