
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Group work is used widely in general education and particularly in the language classroom where students actually learn language through interaction. It therefore becomes important for teachers to effectively construct groups to bring out the best results. Despite this, there is little research in language learning that considers how teachers should deal with emergent leaders in small groups. Emergent leaders are the students who are not official leaders but take on a leadership role. At present we do not know if these roles are stable, or how they may change depending on the group. We also do not know how leadership may influence student engagement with tasks. This research addressed this by putting students into a fixed group for a semester, measuring their perceived leadership, and then changing their groups for the second semester. The stability of roles was investigated, and the research then focused on the task behavior of three specific students. The results showed that although leadership was stable within the same group, a change in group membership led to a change in leader in about half of the groups. When students changed from leader to non-leader, they were far less engaged with the tasks, and took a passive role. The reverse happened when students went from non-leader to leader. The results highlight the fact that leaders are really important in groups, and that they change depending on the make-up of the group. This then leads to big changes in student behavior. This research suggests that teachers should monitor groups and vary membership regularly to avoid potentially negative influence of emergent leaders, and also avoid using group discussion tasks as the sole means of assessing students’ performance because students’ engagement is strongly influenced by other group members. 
What the researchers did
 
● Students were science majors in a Japanese university taking compulsory oral English classes and could be considered low level in terms of English speaking proficiency. 
● Students were randomly assigned to fixed groups for the first semester, and then chose their own fixed group for the second semester. They were asked to rate group members for perceived leadership six times over the course of the academic year. 
● Four ten-minute group discussions were recorded over the academic year and analyzed to see how students engaged with the tasks. 
● Leadership scores were compared both within groups, and when group membership changed to determine changes in leadership behavior. 
● Three students were selected for detailed analysis of their engagement in tasks. They represented a) consistent and strong leadership b) strong leader to weak leader and c) weak leader to strong leader. 
What the researchers found
 
● Leaders emerge in groups and leadership roles are stable when the group is unchanged. 
● When groups change, students change their behavior and approximately 50% of leaders change. 
● When students are in leadership roles, they are highly engaged with language tasks, driving conversation. 
● When leaders reject the leadership role, they show far lower engagement with tasks and take a back seat in discussions. 
Things to consider
 
● When students are placed into fixed groups in the language classroom, a single student often emerges as a stable leader. When groups change, there is a reasonable chance that the leader will no longer take on this role in their new group. 
● Leaders are heavily engaged in group tasks, and changes in leadership behavior strongly influence individual student’s task engagement. 
● Teachers should monitor groups and consider changing membership when leadership may not seem beneficial to all of the group. Teachers should also avoid relying solely on group discussions to assess student performance. 
● This study was limited as the researcher was also the teacher, and all the data was analyzed by only one person. 
● Future studied should try to find out how emergent leadership may influence growth in language proficiency. 