
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Many universities where English is not a widely spoken language are increasingly teaching academic subjects in English as, among other reasons, a means to improve students’ proficiency in English. While previous studies have focused on measuring specific elements of language acquisition (e.g., vocabulary), this study looked comprehensively at institutional factors and supports which may contribute to or inhibit English language development for postgraduate students in a non-English dominant context. The framework offered in this study might serve as a starting point for universities in Kazakhstan and other multilingual contexts to assess needs and develop action plans for supporting language development in English as a Medium of Instruction (EMI) programs. 
What the researchers did
 
● Constructed a theoretical framework from existing literature and practical experience of four types of factors that might facilitate or inhibit English language development in EMI—structural, cultural, pedagogical, and sociolinguistic. 
● Designed a quantitative instrument, namely a survey with a total of 60 questions on the four factors. Participants answered on a 7-point scale. 
● Collected data from 283 students at 6 universities studying fully or partially in English. 
● Conducted factor analysis (a statistical analysis) to test to what extent the answers fitted the theoretical framework. 
● Developed interview protocols and conducted interviews with students, faculty, and administrators at six institutions to further contextualize the quantitative findings. 
What the researchers found
 
● The four-part framework (structural, cultural, pedagogical, and sociolinguistic) was generally confirmed by the statistical analysis. 
● Motivation (a cultural factor) to learn English is high in students, but faculty motivation to change teaching practices was described by administrators as less strong. 
● Structural factors were important, but within these factors institutional resources outside the university (e.g., international partnerships and faculty) were more highly valued than national or institutional policies. 
● Pedagogical factors were mostly teacher-centered, skill-based, or oriented to translanguaging practices (use of languages other than English) to support students with low proficiency in English. 
● The sociolinguistic environment remains Russian dominant; English is not present in the wider environment as a supporting factor. 
Things to consider
 
● The structural findings suggest that admissions policies and learning expectations need to be better aligned for language development. That is, institutions should set higher thresholds for initial admissions. If that is not possible, institutions need to provide more support to students in the form of English for Academic Purposes courses, or pre-degree foundational courses. 
● While faculty members naturally and intuitively identify their students’ levels and needs and adjust their use of English and other languages accordingly, additional guidelines and professional development on teaching in a second or foreign language could help faculty embrace the translanguaging shifts they make, and learn to make other types of pedagogical adjustments that support language development. 