
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The ability to retain information in long-term memory is important in second language (L2) learning. People possess different types of long-term memory, some of which appear to contribute to L2 learning. One type of long-term memory is procedural memory, which broadly supports memory for skills that involve gradual, implicit (i.e., unaware) learning that relies on a specific part of the brain (basal ganglia). For example, learning how to ride a bike likely engages procedural memory. Prior research supports a role for procedural memory in L2 learning, but agreement on the most valid way to measure procedural memory has not emerged. In the current study, the researchers had participants complete three procedural memory assessments that have been used in prior L2 research. One procedural assessment was a sequence learning task, one was a categorization task, and the last was a problem-solving task. Performance on these tasks was contrasted with performance on assessments of a different type of long-term memory—declarative memory—that supports memory for facts and personal experiences and has been shown to contribute to L2 learning. The results suggested that sequence learning was the most valid measure of procedural memory overall. 
What the researchers did
 
● 119 participants at a large Midwestern university completed the current study for course credit. 
● The researchers administered the following procedural memory assessments: o Sequence learning (Alternating Serial Reaction Time task): Participants pressed a key corresponding to the location of a cartoon dog’s head moving in an array of 4 circles. Every other move followed a pattern, with intervening random moves. Learning was measured as the difference in keypress response times to pattern vs. random moves. o Categorization (Weather Prediction Task): Participants guessed fictional weather outcomes (sunshine or rain) based on cards that looked like fortune-telling cards. Different combinations of cards were associated with different probabilities of sunshine or rain. Learning was measured as the accuracy of weather prediction. o Problem solving (Tower of London): Participants arranged circles sitting on three sticks, where they had to match a goal configuration in as few moves as possible. The task was repeated, with learning measured as the improvement on the second administration of the task. 
● The researchers analyzed associations among performance on the procedural memory tasks. If the tasks measure procedural memory, then doing well on one task should be associated with doing well on another task. They also tested to make sure that procedural memory performance was not related to declarative memory performance. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the procedural memory tasks did not appear to be related to each other. As expected, the sequence learning and problem-solving tasks did not associate with declarative memory. However, the categorization task did pattern with declarative memory, suggesting that it may not purely measure procedural memory. 
● In a follow-up study with a subset of participants (33), the researchers administered a different sequence learning task (Serial Reaction Time task). The results suggested that this sequence learning task was associated with the first one. 
● The researchers cautiously claim that sequence learning is a valid measure of procedural memory. Either of the sequence learning tasks could potentially be valid, although each task has pros and cons. 
Things to consider
 
● Sequence learning is potentially a good way to measure procedural memory. 
● However, conclusions from this work are limited by, among other reasons, the small size of the follow-up study. 
● These findings should inform discussion on valid ways to measure procedural memory, which will help researchers develop a better understanding of how this type of memory helps people acquire a second language, which in turn may inform future instructional approaches that facilitate learning in procedural memory. 