
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Refusing someone’s request, offer, or invitation can have negative consequences for interpersonal relationships. It is therefore important to understand how people do refusals and how second language (L2) learners develop their interactional ability in this area, which can then lead to teaching interventions. Previous studies on the development of refusals mostly focused on European languages and employed structured, non-interactive data collection methods. Little attention has been given to refusals in Mandarin Chinese as a second language from an interactional competence perspective. This study used role-play tasks to investigate how learners of Mandarin as a second language at different levels of proficiency organize and formulate their refusals, and how differences in situational features influence their talk.   
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 38 L2 Mandarin learners (16 males and 12 females) representing 15 cultural backgrounds and 3 proficiency levels (lower-intermediate, A2 level based on CEFR; upper-intermediate, B1; advanced, B2). All L2 learners were learning Chinese at a large university in the north of China. 10 native speakers of Chinese were also recruited. 
● Participants completed three role play tasks with a trained native speaker interlocutor. 
● The three role play tasks elicited refusals to invitation, request, and offer and involved different power relationships. The role plays were audio-recorded and analyzed based on Conversation Analysis. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners’ proficiency level was related to how they structured and formulated refusals. Increasing proficiency was associated with refusals becoming less direct, more delayed, and thereby less likely to cause offense. 
● Lower-intermediate learners occasionally refused directly without any delay or softening, which is atypical in normal conversation. In most cases, they deployed a delay, pause, particle or apology before refusing, which they accomplished by means of a negative statement and adding an explanation. 
● Upper-intermediate learners delayed their refusals and often foreshadowed their refusals through turn-initial particle 哦 ō ‘oh’ and 啊 ā ‘ah.’ They also frequently employed the common ‘yes, but’ structure. 
● Advanced learners had a wide range of organizational and lexical tools available. New methods included extra talk asking for more information before the refusal (insert-expansion), vague expressions such as 可能 kě néng ‘probably,’ and particles such as 哎呀 ai ya ‘aiya.’ 
● Native speakers’ refusals were similar to advanced learners’ though some unique interactional devices occurred, such as 啊 ā ‘ah’ at the end of a turn and 这个 zhe ge ‘well’ at the beginning of a turn. They also showed more diversified formats for the ‘yes, but’ structure. 
● Both learners and native speakers adjusted their talk to the situation they were speaking in but there were some differences. When the role play partner acted as a professor whose invitation to a family dinner participants were to decline, all groups showed the respect required by cultural norms and used a title (老师 lǎo shī ‘teacher’). However, learners mostly accompanied their refusals with apologies whereas native speakers also expressed appreciation for the invitation. Similarly, when refusing a roommate’s request to borrow a laptop, all groups frequently included apologies in their refusals with native speakers also offering concrete solutions. In a scenario where learners acted out the role of a club president refusing a students’ offer of help with an event, upper-intermediate and advanced learners were more likely to use an address term than lower-level learners. Native speakers made promises for the future to lower the immediate impact of the refusal. 
Things to consider
 
● Learners’ general proficiency clearly has an impact on how they organize and formulate their refusals, with higher-level learners commanding a broader set of interactional tools to emphasize social harmony and minimize the potentially negative interpersonal effect of the refusal. 
● Even learners at the highest levels of proficiency remain different from native speakers in their refusals, for example with regard 这个 zhe ge ‘well’ at the beginning of a turn, which could only be observed among native speakers. The reasons for these differences are unclear, implying future research is needed. 