
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In many languages, a given word form can have several grammatical functions. For example, the word "play" can be a verb, as in "we like to play in the garden" or a noun, as in "the audience liked the play very much". In German, any verb can be regularly turned into a same sounding noun by a grammatical rule, which we call conversion. We asked how such related words that share the same form but have different grammatical functions are stored in our minds. Are they independent representations? Or is there just one representation for all of them that is very flexible in its use? Or is the situation more complex? Is the type of storage different for native speakers and language learners? We tested how much a recognition of a phrase like wir spielen (we play) can be speeded up by phrases that preceded it and that contained an identical word in either the same or a different function, for instance sie spielen (they play), wir wollen spielen (we want to play) or das Spielen (the playing). The principle is based on a well-known effect that the more similar two words are, the faster can people recognize the second one, if they read them in succession. The study found that typical verb forms speeded up typical verb forms most. Typical nouns did not speed up typical verbs at all, suggesting that they have independent representations, though they look the same on the surface. Infinitives (to play) and nouns converted from verbs by a grammatical rule speeded typical verbs only partially. The same differences for the three groups of words were found for native speakers and advanced learners of German. 
What the researchers did
 
● 70 native speakers of German were recruited as participants, aged between 20-42, together with 71 advanced learners of German with Czech as their native language (aged between 18-35). 
● Participants were asked to read short phrases on a computer screen and to decide whether they think the phrase was grammatically correct or not by pressing one of two corresponding buttons. The speed and the correctness of all their responses was recorded. 
● We tested how speed and accuracy of participants’ responses to a phrase like wir spielen (we play) were affected directly after reading a phrase sharing an identical form but with a different grammatical function. 
● We compared the influence of five different grammatical uses of a single word-form like sie spielen (they play), wir wollen spielen (we want to play), das Spielen (the playing), mit den zwei Spielen (with the two games). 
What the researchers found
 
● Response to phrases containing verbs like wir spielen (we play): o Were fastest when the exact same phrase was presented before or when it was also a verb but paired with a different pronoun, for example sie spielen (they play). o Were slowest when the phrase before contained a countable noun with an identical form like mit den zwei Spielen (with the two games). o Were in-between when the phrase contained infinitives (wir wollen spielen, ‘we want to play’) or nouns that were derived from verbs by a grammatical rule (das Spielen, ‘the playing’). 
● This pattern of results was the same for learners and native speakers, although learners were generally slower than native speakers. 
Things to consider
 
● The processing of a phrase containing a verb did not benefit at all from being processed directly after an identical word-form that functioned as a typical (countable) noun. This indicates that the two grammatical functions of a same sounding word (verb vs. noun) rely on two distinct word representations in the mind. 
● In the study, infinitive forms and converted nouns patterned together and were different from verbs and typical nouns. In the literature that compares the grammar of different languages (typology) it is often assumed that some languages comprise such a special type of word-class called ‘non-finites’. 
● In the study, both groups of participants, (advanced) learners and native speakers, showed the same pattern of responses. We therefore conclude that they rely on the same principles when organizing their mental representations of words, at least for the investigated word forms in German. 
● More research is needed, for instance to investigate the influence of other factors (e.g., orthography) and to investigate the time-course of establishing word categories in the learners’ mind when acquiring a language. 