
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Although coursebooks are often the main medium language teachers use in their classrooms, there are not many studies that show us how teachers actually use them. Because concerns have been expressed about teachers’ coursebook dependency, it is important that teachers are given opportunities to explore their own coursebook practices. This study provided two English language teachers with such an opportunity. Through their explorations, they found out that they stuck to a rather routinized coursebook use as they followed the guidance of the coursebook. Even though they developed critical views of their own coursebook use, they did not change it much. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were two female English language teachers (L1: Turkish; self-selected pseudonyms Alice and Fiona). Alice was 29 years old and had eight years of teaching experience, Fiona was 36 with 13 years of teaching experience. 
● The context was a preparatory programme at a Turkish state university. The two teachers worked in two parallel classes of the programme. 
● The coursebook series used was a global ELT coursebook for young adult learners. It served the programme makers as the de facto curriculum. 
● The researcher interviewed the teachers and asked them to provide a metaphor for coursebooks to find out about their views on coursebooks at the beginning of the study. Then a total of 12 video-recorded lesson observations were made, six for each teacher. In a week, the teachers conducted lessons based on the same coursebook page(s). The researcher identified adaptations, i.e., instances when the teachers modified procedures offered in the book. 
● After the lessons, the teachers separately watched the recordings of their own lessons and commented on their instruction. The two teachers and the researcher then met in a reflective meeting in which they discussed how the coursebook was used as well as other aspects of their instructional practice. Additionally, the teachers kept journals after each lesson, video meeting and reflective meeting. At the end of the study, the researcher conducted interviews to get the teachers’ views on the whole study and the lessons learned. 
What the researchers found
 
● The teachers thought at the beginning of the study that the coursebook was the main component of their teaching and that they had control over the coursebook. Expressing satisfaction with the coursebook, they stated that the school programme (weekly syllabus, exam calendar) forced them to follow the book closely. 
● The analysis of the lessons confirmed that the coursebook was the main component because they generally followed the guidance given by the coursebook and they modified materials and tasks only slightly. 
● Neither of the teachers planned their lessons; their coursebook approach can be characterised as routinized because they described their ways of using the coursebook as their usual way. 
● Alice was not always sure about why she used the coursebook in the way she did. Fiona had a rather pragmatic approach because she used the coursebook to get her lessons done in the time frame set by the school programme. 
● Both teachers developed a critical view of their coursebook utilisations because they discovered that the coursebook actually controlled them to a certain extent. 
● Despite these insights gained, the teachers did not change their coursebook use in a meaningful way during the study. 
Things to consider
 
● The teachers in this study were guided by their routinized coursebook practices along with regulations set by the school programme and the structured delivery of texts and tasks in the coursebook. They were not mainly driven by pedagogical concerns. This case shows that coursebooks may have a deskilling effect on teachers. However, other contexts (e.g., in terms of programmes, teacher profiles or coursebooks used) may generate other results. 
● Taking the specific context of the study into account, the study calls for teacher development programmes that allow teachers to try out coursebook adaptations, for school programmes that are not entirely based on coursebooks, and the design of coursebooks that offer teachers materials and activities instead of prescribing them procedures to follow. 