
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Researchers in the field of second language acquisition have endeavored to understand how learners’ language aptitude (i.e., language learning ability) may help second language (L2) learners attain different types of linguistic knowledge, namely explicit knowledge (i.e., knowledge that involves awareness) and implicit knowledge (i.e., knowledge that does not involve awareness). Most of this research was conducted in instructed settings with explicit learning measures; relatively little is known about how implicit-statistical learning aptitude (i.e., the ability to detect regularities naturally in the environment) relates to linguistic knowledge, especially implicit knowledge, in advanced L2 learners. To address this gap, the researchers examined (1) whether implicit-statistical learning aptitude is a unified or multidimensional construct and (2) to what extent implicit-statistical learning aptitude predicts different types of L2 knowledge. They analyzed the interrelations between four implicit aptitude measures to address whether implicit-statistical learning is a multifaceted ability. Subsequently, they tested the extent to which these aptitude measures differentially predict L2 implicit knowledge based on a battery of nine tests of L2 grammar knowledge. The results indicated that implicit aptitude is a non-unitary, multicomponential construct that is best measured using different aptitude tests. The results further supported the validity of timed, accuracy-based L2 tests (i.e., elicited imitation, oral production, timed aural/written grammaticality judgment tests) to measure learners’ implicit linguistic knowledge. 
What the researchers did
 
● 131 highly proficient L2 learners of English with diverse first language backgrounds and L2 learning experiences were recruited from a large Midwestern university in the United States.  
● The participants completed four implicit-statistical learning aptitude measures for a comprehensive assessment of their implicit learning ability. They performed an alternating serial reaction time task (ASRT), an auditory statistical learning task (ASL), a visual statistical learning task (VSL), and the Tower of London task.  
● The participants also completed nine L2 linguistic knowledge tests which assessed a range of English grammar structures. The jury is still out on how best to measure implicit knowledge of a L2. To allow for different possibilities, the participants completed two reaction-time-based tests (word monitoring test and self-paced reading) and four timed, accuracy-based tests (timed written grammaticality judgment test (GJT), timed aural GJT, elicited imitation task, and oral production task) to measure their implicit knowledge. Untimed, accuracy-based tests (untimed written GJT, untimed aural GJT, and metalinguistic knowledge test) provided a measure of explicit knowledge.  
What the researchers found
 
● The four implicit-statistical learning aptitude measures did not pattern together, suggesting implicit-statistical language learning is a multicomponential ability that likely does not operate as a unitary system.  
● Differing from the overall result, auditory and visual statistical learning did show a medium-strong correlation. This suggests that a common ability, namely statistical learning, may underlie performance on the two tests. Input modality is an important source of individual differences in statistical learning ability.  
● Motor sequence learning on a non-verbal task (the ASRT) predicted learners’ performance on timed, accuracy-based language tests. This affirmed the validity of timed, accuracy-based tests in assessing L2 implicit knowledge. Similar support for the validity of reaction-time-based tests as measures of implicit knowledge was lacking.  
Things to consider
 
● When measuring implicit-statistical learning aptitude, it is recommended to use multiple tests whenever possible in due consideration of aptitude’s multi-faceted nature.  
● Because aptitude is multi-faceted, results obtained with one aptitude measure should not be generalized to the larger construct of implicit-statistical learning aptitude but rather interpreted with reference to the specific aptitude test that was used. 
● The researchers noted more research is needed to confirm the validity and reliability of reaction-time-based linguistic tests to measure L2 implicit knowledge. 