
What this research was about and why it is important 
 According to theoretical models of second language (L2) sound learning, accurate perception is one of the primary determinants of accurate production. Learning to perceive L2 sounds accurately is a complex process. Learners need to detect differences between sounds in their native language and their L2 counterparts, differences that tend to be very subtle. Once they detect these differences, their perception should begin to improve and with it, their production should also improve. Many studies have investigated this process, examining the extent to which accuracy in sound perception promotes accuracy in sound production. These studies have generated a range of findings, including no relationship between perception and production to a strong perception-production link. Part of this variation can be attributed to the methodological choices that researchers have made. Simply put, there are many different ways to measure perception and production, and many different ways to define accuracy in each modality. This means that comparing the two modalities in a valid and reliable way is not a straightforward task. There are also a variety of theoretical issues that need to be addressed to enhance our understanding of the perception-production link. In this paper, we suggest areas for future perception-production research and make recommendations for carrying out methodologically rigorous work on the topic. 
What the researchers did
 
● We reviewed the following models of L2 speech perception and speech production: the L2 Perceptual Assimilation Model, the L2 Linguistic Perception Model, and the Speech Learning Model. 
● We pointed out that these models were not specifically designed to account for the relationship between speech perception and speech production, even though they are often applied as general perception-production models. 
● We identified three areas for future theoretical work: (1) examining the perception-production link longitudinally, (2) examining the link for different types of crosslinguistic relationships (e.g., the native language has one sound, where the L2 has two; the native language and the L2 have the same sounds, but they are perceived and produced differently in the two languages), and (3) examining individual differences in the link. 
● We analyzed the tasks researchers typically use to measure perception and production, as well as the statistical tests that are typically used to evaluate the strength of the perception-production link. 
Things to consider
 
● Researchers must take care to select perception and production measures that are comparable; perception measures that test perception in a categorical way should be paired with production measures that are categorical, and perception measures that test perception in a gradient way should be paired with gradient production measures. 
● More longitudinal studies using a variety of perception and production tasks are needed, especially tasks that tap into different aspects of perception and production learning. 
● Researchers should examine different crosslinguistic relationships, or learning scenarios, while holding other aspects of methodology constant to investigate how these relationships affect perception-production findings (i.e., what the perception-production link looks like under different learning scenarios). 
● Future work will need to address the perception-production link for pronunciation structures beyond L2 sounds (the primary focus of work up to this point), especially prosodic features such as stress, intonation, and so on. 