
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Dynamic Assessment (DA) is a procedure that requires teachers to respond to learners’ errors by providing graduated prompts (i.e., giving clues that gradually become more direct to help a student correct an error) and assessing students’ progress for future instruction (i.e., noting the number of prompts students require for correction). Although many studies have examined how teachers and tutors implement DA, little is known about the difficulties that they experience when learning how to do so. The present study examined the tensions that arose in the practice of three second language (L2) teachers during their participation in a professional development series focused on classroom DA. Findings illustrated that attempts to change one aspect of a teacher’s practice (i.e., the tools that they use to respond to students’ errors) create tensions with other aspects of their activity. Therefore, it is necessary to explore the origins of these tensions, and the motives that contribute to their resolution. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants took part in a four-month professional development program, designed and carried out by the researchers, that focused on how to implement DA in L2 classrooms. 
● Participants included one undergraduate pre-service Spanish teacher in the United States and two in-service English teachers in Colombia. 
● The professional development included four two-hour workshops that explained the theory of DA as well as two defining characteristics: Providing learners with graduated prompts and tracking learner’s responsiveness to those prompts. 
● The researchers studied teachers’ planning and implementation of four lessons, one before the workshops and three following the workshops. Following each lesson, the teachers explained and reflected on their practices. 
● Researchers analyzed the teachers’ reflections after the implementation of each lesson to identify the tensions that they experienced when incorporating DA into their practice. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers initially struggled to provide learners with graduated prompts because of their belief that the use of recasts (i.e., repeating students’ utterances in the correct format) promoted learning, was less obtrusive, and saved time. 
● Students’ tendency to interrupt interactions made it difficult for teachers to support individual students in correcting their own errors. 
● Teachers struggled to simultaneously assess students’ progress by tracking the prompting required. 
● Teachers started to decisively provide graduated prompts to learners’ errors when they realized that these tools facilitated learning in that students could identify their errors and correct them.  
● By the end of the study, only one of the three teachers resolved the tensions that arose by adopting both defining characteristics of DA. 
Things to consider
 
● The tensions that the teachers experienced helped them to reorient their assessment practices. 
● Professional development programs should identify the motives that help teachers transform their assessment practices. 
● Professional development programs should explore the tensions that teaches experience when incorporating new practices to collaboratively resolve them. 