
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study focuses on language-related episodes and creative language play. Language-related episodes happen when learners or experts of a language express their thoughts about vocabulary or grammar. Everyone has experienced a situation where they talked or joked with friends about an especially funny or interesting word. Often, such words then become very memorable. The same idea can be applied to the language classroom: learners can benefit from talking about, questioning, or correcting their own or others’ language use. Creative language play aims to give room for language-related episodes by putting learners in groups where they collaboratively work on a creative task. In this study, the creative task in question was to build compound words in German. Learners were put in groups where they had to invent German compound words and explain their meanings. Half of those groups could choose words freely, but the other half had an additional formal constraint embedded in their task: their inventions needed to involve alliteration. By analyzing learners’ interactions, this study demonstrated how language teachers can utilize fun but also constrained activities to keep learners engaged and get them to become more creative. What are compound words? Compound words are combinations of two or more words. For example, adding friend to girl results in girlfriend. What is alliteration? Alliteration is the occurrence of the same letter or sound at the beginning of connected words. For example, both words in baby bear begin with b. What the researcher did 
● Six groups of three learners each were asked to invent and explain as many German compound words as possible for 20 minutes without using a dictionary. 
● All learners could talk in German or their native language. 
● Half of the groups could choose words freely, but the other half had to use only words starting with the same letter (alliteration). 
● All interaction was recorded, transcribed, and analyzed by using a framework called conversation analysis. 
● All ideas for compound words and language-related episodes were coded and counted. What the researcher found 
● Groups in the alliteration condition produced fewer ideas in total but had more elaborate language-related episodes about the meaning of interesting words such as Urlaubsuhr (vacation clock)—‘a clock on which time runs slow’ 
● Groups in the free condition often resorted to common expressions such as Kopfschmerzen (headaches) that were then quickly dismissed due to not being satisfying enough 
● We can say that putting a formal constraint on the task condition increased the quality and enjoyment of the interaction but decreased the number of idea proposals 
Things to consider
 
● Being limited in choices (selection pressure) can bring learners to use and notice more unfamiliar vocabulary which in turn leads to more elaborate language-related episodes 
● Teachers could provide opportunities for learners to deeply talk about the meaning of all kinds of words (even in their native language) by having them invent word combinations in constrained creative language play. 