
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Pair work is a popular form of instructional activity in current language classrooms. Do learners follow instructions exactly as instructed by the teacher or as specified by instructional materials during pair work? It is often the case that teachers’ intentions do not coincide with what learners actually do in peer interaction. In order to better understand how and what kind of learning occurs in this type of activity, it is important to know the actual process of learner participation. There are various factors that may affect learner behavior in pair work, but this study focused specifically on how learners showed each other their understandings of co-participants and of the ongoing events. This focus made it possible to identify both planned and unplanned elements of pair work from the participant-relevant viewpoint. The study found two sometimes competing learner orientations, namely “the normative-interaction layer” and “the pedagogical-activity layer.” The examination of these layers enabled us to better understand the complex procedure of pair work. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study examined 67 cases of pair-work interaction videorecorded in beginning-level Japanese-as-a-foreign-language classrooms at an American university. Beginning-level pair work tends to be highly structured with written activity prompts—specifying task instruction, language/pictorial cues, questions to ask, expected sequence of utterances, and so forth—presented to students. Thus, one of the main analytical foci was to examine how such instructional materials influenced the ways in which learners engaged in pair work. 
● The researcher analyzed closely patterns of pair-work interaction, using the framework of conversation analysis with detailed transcripts of the videorecorded interactions. 
● In addition to the overall pattern of learner participation, particularly noticeable/idiosyncratic cases were presented and discussed in the article, to draw pedagogical implications as to how design features of activity prompts may affect the ways of learner participation. 
What the researchers found
 
● Through the close analysis of pair-work cases, the researcher identified two concurrent layers of learner orientations during pair work: the normative-interaction layer and the pedagogical-activity layer. The former involves interactive procedures as normally found in ordinary conversations, while the latter indicates an overwhelming focus on the completion of the assigned tasks, which shows an individualistic procedure. These two layers of learner orientations sometimes compete against one another, meaning that learners attend to divergent goals (e.g., completion of the assigned sequence of turns vs. engagement in spontaneous talk) within a single episode of pair work. 
● The type of activity prompts used in the focal classrooms served three main functions: (a) information feeder, (b) linguistic-features elicitor, and (c) spontaneous-talk instigator. The first two are closely related to what the teacher intended with the assigned tasks, whereas the third one appears to be full of learning opportunities because learners need to use the language more creatively and spontaneously. 
● Learners tend to engage in more creative/spontaneous talk toward the end of the prescribed sequence of turns where the assigned tasks come to an end and learners need to negotiate the next possible actions. 
Things to consider
 
● The design features of activity prompts—especially where and to what extent the “incompleteness” is found on the prompts—bear much relevance to the resulting learner behavior. 
● If our pedagogical goal is to maintain a fine balance between creating planned and controlled pedagogical foci and simultaneously encouraging creative and spontaneous exchanges of utterances between learners, we need to know how learners behave with given instructional materials during pair work. While this study attempted to fill this gap, more research should be conducted examining various types of activity prompts in order to get a fuller picture. 