
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In order for language learners to be successful communicators, they need to have abilities to use language appropriately and sensibly in different contexts. Understanding (im)politeness in second or foreign contexts is one of these important abilities. Since language teaching textbooks are often the main sources of language learning input, they are expected to provide learners with adequate awareness towards (im)politeness. This study investigated the extent to which popular textbook series in English Language Teaching (ELT), across four language proficiency levels from starter to upper-intermediate levels, represent and provide awareness towards impoliteness resources and responses to them. It was found that the investigated textbooks hardly did anything to sensitize/instruct the learners either directly or indirectly about the impoliteness-related phenomena. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers identified examples of impoliteness in the audio files (1961 minutes) of two textbook series (Interchange and American English File) along with the scripts available in the teacher’s books. 
● They analyzed the identified impoliteness acts and responses to them. 
● They qualitatively scrutinized the pertinent sections in the student’s and teacher’s books to check whether any direct or indirect teaching of offensive acts was offered. 
● They quantitatively calculated and tabulated the frequencies of impoliteness acts and responses to them. 
What the researchers found
 
● A total of 37 cases were found in which people start impolite interactions. 
● Twenty-five cases (out of 37) intended to offend other people; these cases are called genuine impoliteness. Twelve cases (out of 37) were proposed as banter, these cases are called mock impoliteness. 
● Three cases (out of 25 cases of genuine impoliteness) did not receive any responses. Eighteen cases happened between two people. Four cases happened among (more than) three people. 
● In 14 cases (out of 25 cases of genuine impoliteness) the people who were insulted were absent in the situation. These cases are called out-group impoliteness. In the 11 cases (out of 25 cases of genuine impoliteness) the people who were insulted were present in the situation. These cases are called in-group impoliteness. 
● Impoliteness was more frequently dealt with at the highest level of language proficiency. 
● Impoliteness instances occurred in Interchange series more than American English File, while American English file series provided more cases of responses to impoliteness than Interchange series. 
● A total of 57 genuine impoliteness acts were identified as both starters of impolite interaction and responses to the issued impoliteness through interaction. 
● Just 7 impoliteness situations drew learners’ attention to impoliteness indirectly, and the others were left without any (even implicit) attention. 
Things to consider
 
● Textbooks do not seem to provide learners with adequate awareness toward impoliteness issues. 
● Language learners are in an urgent need to receive teaching regarding impoliteness issues directly. 
● Language teachers need to provide suitable supplementary materials to promote learners’ awareness towards impoliteness acts. 
● Teachers may include more awareness raising practices towards the impoliteness acts (already) presented in the textbooks. 
● Textbook publishers should pay more attention to introducing impoliteness acts at lower levels of language proficiency. 