
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In a previous study (see OASIS summary), these researchers developed a reliable battery of tests measuring learners’ ability to comprehend and produce metaphor (metaphoric competence). They found that, for adult first language (L1) Mandarin learners of second language (L2) English, metaphoric competence comprised four core components (see measures 3-6 below). In this study, using the same participants, the researchers investigated the relationship between metaphoric competence, vocabulary knowledge, and general language proficiency. The research found that metaphoric competence related to depth of vocabulary knowledge more than size. It also provided evidence that learners even at lower (A2, B1, B2) levels on Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR) could understand and produce metaphor.  
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 108 L1 Mandarin L2 English learners in the UK with an average CEFR of B2, ranging from A2 to C2. Each participant completed tests in either a lab session or online/at home over the course of a few days (there were no detectible differences between lab and home setting scores). 
● Six metaphoric competence measures were derived from the large test battery (see OASIS summary): o Two overall metaphoric competence measures: (1) receptive metaphoric competence (the average of all comprehension items); (2) productive metaphoric competence (the average of all production items). o Four core components of metaphoric competence (found in the researchers’ previous study): (3) producing metaphor for helping others understand and act on information (Productive Illocutionary Metaphoric Competence); (4) creatively playing with metaphor (Metaphor Language Play); (5) recognizing appropriate idea combinations (Topic/Vehicle Acceptability); (6) using fairly standard metaphor structures, such as phrasal verbs (Grammatical Metaphoric Competence). 
● Two vocabulary knowledge tests: o Vocabulary size test (developed by other researchers): Participants indicated which of 200 words they recognized, including some fake words to calibrate for learners who overestimate their knowledge. o Vocabulary depth test (developed by other researchers): For each of 40 adjectives, participants selected four correct associated words (e.g., beautiful-weather) from eight (i.e., there were four incorrect matches). 
● Two general language proficiency tests: o Oxford Online Placement Test (OOPT): overall scores, CEFR levels were calculated based on these scores. o IELTS: participants’ most recent overall score (the time since their test was accounted for in the analysis). 
● The researchers analysed the relationships between all the six metaphoric competence scores and scores for (1) the two general proficiency tests (controlling for vocabulary knowledge), and (2) vocabulary size and depth. 
What the researchers found
 
● At CEFR C1/C2 level, learners mostly accurately recognized appropriate metaphors and (to a lesser extent) produced appropriate metaphors. OOPT had generally stronger links to metaphoric competence than IELTS. 
● Participants at lower levels (B2, B1, A2) also did this with some success. This challenges current CEFR proficiency descriptors, which mention metaphor/figurative language as relevant at C1/C2 learners only. 
● Vocabulary depth had a much stronger relationship to metaphoric competence than vocabulary size, particularly with Overall Productive MC and Metaphor Language Play. This suggested that metaphoric competence was more about the strength of connections between the words and meanings a learner knows, and sensitivity to appropriateness and acceptable phrasing than it was about simply having a large vocabulary. 
Things to consider
 
● Results may not generalise well to other types of learner and/or metaphoric competence measures. 
● The researchers did not collect data on which metaphors were new for test takers or the kinds of skills, knowledge, or strategies used when completing the tests. 
● In your context: To what extent are metaphorical words and senses a part of your vocabulary teaching? How (if at all) do your learners engage in language play? Could you use the metaphor and/or vocabulary test items used in this study (available on IRIS) to develop classroom tasks and promote overall proficiency development? 