
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In this study, we wanted to find out in what ways teachers thought that teaching a language was similar or different from teaching a non-language subject (for example history and math). Research and literature often emphasize the uniqueness of teaching a language; however, there are also commonalities with teaching non-language subjects, such as in terms of shared pedagogies. In this study, we were keen to understand how teachers themselves experienced the particularities of teaching languages compared to other non-language subjects and how teachers in different contexts perceived this. Our hope is that readers can make use of the evidence from teachers’ own lived experiences presented in this study to better understand the needs and realities of language educators along with the subsequent implications for pre- and in-service training as well as policy. 
What the researchers did
 To find answers to our questions: 
● We asked 11 secondary school teachers in Norway and Austria to share their experiences with us in semi-structured interviews. In both countries, it is typical for secondary school teachers to teach two or more subjects. 
● 
● All of them taught both English as a Foreign Language and another, non-language subject. 
● We identified the main themes mentioned by each teacher and then compared all the teachers’ accounts. 
What the researchers found
 We found that: 
● Overall, the teachers identified as teachers first and foremost, and teachers of a particular subject second. 
● Different school subjects are differently valued and have different social status. For example, the Norwegian teachers felt that science and math have a higher status than English. Generally, English as a school subject was perceived as having lower status in Norway than in Austria. 
● They perceived that learner motivation depends on how relevant and useful they think the subject is, and is thus linked to perceptions of subject status. 
● Some learners, especially in Norway, were viewed as being less motivated to study English because they think they already know enough of the language. 
Things to consider
 The teachers’ concerns focused on bigger societal and contextual issues surrounding language teaching, rather than specifics about didactics or pedagogy. As the role of English around the world changes, and students learn more English by being exposed to it and using it online, English as a school subject may eventually be seen as less relevant and useful. This raises the question of what we can do to ensure that students continue to see English as a valuable school subject and remain motivated to engage with it. 