
What this research was about and why it is important 
 People often have difficulty with hearing and pronouncing sounds in their second language, especially when the speech sound system is different from the first language. For example, when speakers of Spanish say English words, such as strict or spring, they will often add an additional sound to the beginning of the words: estrict or espring. This occurs because in Spanish, words cannot start with a st- or sp-, and a vowel is needed, such as e. This study investigated whether adults who were native Spanish speakers of English (bilinguals), along with English-only speakers (monolinguals), heard the e vowel when it was not present within English words, such as strict or spring. Participants’ eye movements were recorded as they looked at words such as strict, words that began with e, such as egg, and words that did not contain s or e at the beginning (e.g., work and can). The study found that bilinguals who were less proficient in English, their second language, looked more at the words that began with e (e.g., egg) than at other words like work and can. Bilinguals who were more proficient in English and English monolinguals showed no differences in their looks to words that did or did not begin with e. These results suggest that bilinguals’ proficiency affects how they hear speech in their second language and that bilinguals’ two languages are highly interactive.  
What the researchers did
  
● The researchers tested 61 adult participants. 28 were English only speakers (monolinguals) and 33 were native Spanish speakers of English (Spanish-English bilinguals). 
● All participants had normal or corrected-to-normal vision and no history of a neurological impairment. 
● Participants were given a questionnaire and vocabulary tests to examine their experience with languages and to account for their proficiency. 
● Across two experiments, the researchers asked participants to select a written word on the screen based on hearing the beginning sound of the word (e.g., “Click on s” for the word strict) or the entire word (e.g., strict). Eye movements towards the four written words on the screen (e.g., strict, egg, work, can) were tracked. Participants used the mouse to click on the word (e.g., strict) on the screen based on the beginning sound (e.g., s) or the word (e.g., strict) they heard. 
What the researchers found
  
● Bilinguals who reported lower proficiency in English, as determined by the questionnaire and the vocabulary tests, looked more at words containing the e sound at the beginning, such as egg, when an st- or sp- word was on the screen, than at the irrelevant words (work and can).  
● This investigation revealed, for the first time, that bilinguals with lower second language proficiency perceive hearing sounds from their first language when only reading words in their second language, even when those sounds are not present. This demonstrates that bilinguals may access their first language when listening to their second language. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings suggest that bilinguals hear sounds from their first language when listening to their second language, but it is not clear how the written form of these sounds affects word comprehension. Future research should examine how written words, or orthography, affect bilinguals’ perception of speech sounds.  
● This study showed that when listening to sounds within words from the second language, bilinguals continue to be influenced by the sound structure of their first language. These findings demonstrate that bilinguals’ two languages are highly interactive and influence each other during comprehension. 