
What this research was about and why it is important 
 For decades, researchers have assumed that all languages are equally hard to understand and learn. This idea is challenged by recent research on Danish, which shows that Danish children are unusually slow at learning their native language, and that even adult Danes show peculiarities in everyday language use. Researchers have suggested that this may be due to the indistinct pronunciation of Danish — characterized by many vowels and few consonants — which may make the language intrinsically hard to understand and learn. The present article reviews the available literature on Danish to systematically assess this hypothesis. The literature review shows that Danish may indeed be harder to understand and learn than other closely related languages. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers reviewed all the available literature that empirically links the unusually complex pronunciation of Danish to the observed peculiarities of language acquisition and use. 
What the researchers found
 
● The pronunciation of Danish is unusually complex, even in relation to very closely related languages like Swedish and Norwegian, which are virtually identical to Danish in written form. 
● Danish-learning children are delayed in the acquisition of vocabulary and morphology, compared to children learning other European and North-American languages. 
● There is growing evidence that the seemingly ‘slurred’ pronunciation of Danish — especially the long sequences of contiguous vowels without intervening consonants — negatively affects the comprehension of familiar words and the acquisition of new words. 
● There is initial evidence that Danish-learning children may adapt to the difficult speech input by learning to rely more on contextual cues in communication, compared to speakers of other languages. It can be observed that adult Danish speakers are more context-dependent in understanding spoken language than speakers of a closely related language such as Norwegian. 
Things to consider
 
● The case of Danish seems to be at odds with the long-established view that all languages are equally hard to understand and learn since they are cut from the same “universal cloth.” 
● Instead, the case of Danish speaks in favor of a view of different languages as unique historical products of cultural transmission that can differ in how easy or hard they are to understand and learn, even for native speakers. 
● This result has significant implications for pre-school and primary school literacy education, and highlights the importance of effective reading instruction in Denmark, where the percentage of proficient readers is lower than in other comparable countries. 