
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Smartphones are ubiquitous in today’s society, and even if it seems that technology may have positive effects on language use and learning, we need more understanding on the role of mobile technology in language use and learning. This article shows how smartphones supports students’ language use and learning during different phases of a pedagogical experiment that aimed to guide second language (L2) students with emerging literacy to participate in everyday interactions outside the language classroom and to learn from them. The article illustrates how the focal student uses his smartphone as part of language learning activity and how he creates his own methods for learning. The findings can be used in designing pedagogical practices that encompass language learning environment beyond classrooms with the help of mobile technology. 
What the researchers did
 
● They designed a three-phase pedagogical intervention that was organized as part of an integration learning course for adult L2 students with emerging literacy. 
● Participants were 16 adult learners of Finnish in Finland with a refugee / asylum seeker background. An in-depth analysis of smart phone use focused on one specific learner (focal student) . 
● The intervention involved two visits to a marketplace where the students first made observations about the language use, such as take photos and make notes of word and phrases on signs, and then engaged in service encounters that were videorecorded. The video recordings were watched back in the classroom and language use in them was analyzed together.  
● The researchers observed the focal student’s use of smartphone throughout the pedagogical experiment and analyzed this as an example of how personal objects may support language use and serve as cognitive aids in language learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● Adult second language learners with emerging literacy use smartphones in sophisticated ways in interaction to enhance possibilities for participation. 
● Smartphones are useful for language learners with emerging literacy because of their voice recognition features. 
● Smartphones are easy and fast to use, and they are personal carry-on devices, which also makes them beneficial from the point of view of language learning. 
● Sophisticated use of personal objects as cognitive aids can be seen as part of language user’s interactional competence. 
Things to consider
 
● Adult second language learners with emerging literacy are competent in using smartphones. These competencies should be recognized and taken seriously in designing language teaching practices.  
● Language use and learning happens in social interaction in which not only other people but also materials and personal objects are relevant in supporting language use and learning. 
● The analysis of students’ own learning methods gives understanding of what is important to consider when designing language pedagogical activities that equip L2 learners with competencies that are useful in their life-worlds.  