
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Learners differ in the ways they approach and accomplish goals. Some learners are more interested in advancing and making progress towards goals (i.e., they have a “promotion focus”), while others are more concerned about minimizing losses (i.e., they have a “prevention focus”). It has been proposed that when a learner’s behavioral tendency corresponds to specific strategies they adopt towards a certain goal, this fit can enhance performance. This study examined whether second language learners who experienced fit did better than those who experienced non-fit in a classroom activity to learn word stress patterns in English speech. The learners were divided into two groups and received either promotion-oriented or prevention-oriented instructions, which created fit or non-fit depending on each learner’s behavioral tendency. The study found that (1) fit and non-fit did not affect how well the learners performed; but (2) regardless of their individual behavioral tendencies, all learners benefitted from promotion-oriented instructions.  What the researcher did 
● Learners were 90 students of English as a second language, aged 19 to 21. As part of class activities, they practiced English speech patterns by mimicking a model speech. 
● Learners completed a questionnaire that assessed each learner’s behavioral tendency, that is, whether a learner was more promotion-oriented or more prevention-oriented. 
● The learners were divided into two groups, which received either promotion-oriented instructions (i.e., the “gain” condition) or prevention-oriented instructions (i.e., the “loss” condition) regarding the class activity’s goal. The goal was to get a chance to enter a prize drawing by accurately mimicking a recorded speech. 
● In the gain condition, the learners started at zero and accumulated points by reading each sentence correctly; the gain condition was a fit for promotion-oriented learners. In the loss condition, the learners began with full scores, and they lost points by making mistakes in their reading; the loss condition was a fit for prevention-oriented learners. 
● The learners’ knowledge of lexical stress was compared before and after the class activity, and between the learners who experienced fit and those who experienced non-fit. What the researcher found 
● While the learners improved their lexical (word) stress knowledge overall, the learners who received promotion-oriented instructions (i.e., the gain condition) improved more than the learners who received prevention-oriented instructions (i.e., the loss condition). 
● The learners’ acquisition of lexical stress was not facilitated by experiencing fit between their behavioral tendency and their group’s orientation. 
Things to consider
 
● The study was conducted in a learning context, and to learn is to advance and make progress. Therefore, promotion-oriented instructions might be more generally effective in encouraging learner motivation, regardless of individual behavioral tendencies. 
● Although the study did not show any advantage of fit, it offers teachers a new perspective on learner motivation and learner characteristics. That is, the study suggests that a learner’s characteristics may be better suited to some task types than others, rather than that certain characteristics make a learner good at all tasks in all situations. 