What this study was about and why it is important To prevent transmission of COVID-19, rapid changes in instructional delivery moved from in-person to remote instruction. Research suggests that online teaching can be as effective as face-to-face teaching. However, what happened in the spring of 2020 was not the same as planned online learning. The abrupt shift from face-to-face contexts to remote learning created a new context for teaching. For this study, we were interested in the perceptions of PreK-12 (age 2-18) and post-secondary language educators about both planned online learning and emergency remote instruction. We investigated how world language (WL) and English as a second language (ESL) teachers adapted their instruction during the shift to remote learning and how teachers perceived the shift to remote instruction. We also examined whether there were differences between PreK-12 and higher education educators’ perceptions and those who did and did not have prior experience teaching online. The study showed that all educators used features of online teaching and learning that are supported by the literature, however PreK-12 teachers and those with no experience with online teaching were least confident that their instructional goals were met. 
What the researchers did
 
● Conducted a survey that included 377 language (ESL and WL) educators. Of the survey respondents, 75.1% taught PreK-12 students. 
● Participants completed a 5-section survey designed to explore (a) language course features and teaching practices for either or both planned online and remote teaching (b) perceptions of remote instructional experiences during spring 2020.
What the researchers found
 
● Few language educators reported experiences with or positive perceptions toward teaching online before COVID-19. 
● All language educators, regardless of classroom setting, made numerous adjustments to their typical procedures, policies and expectations during remote teaching. 
● PreK-12 teachers and those without prior experience with online teaching were least confident that instructional goals were met, even though they also reported well-designed courses with features of online learning recommended by the literature. 
● PreK-12 educators were constrained by mandates that affected learner accountability and motivation—for example, some school districts mandated that no new content be taught, especially in non-tested areas. 
● PreK-12 educators reported concerns related to equity that directly influenced how they were able to support learners during the health pandemic—in particular, concerns related to internet and technology access and student safety while learning at home. 
Things to consider
 
● Most educators had limited experiences with online teaching prior to COVID-19. Preservice teacher preparation should begin to prepare language educators to integrate technology and teach online. 
● All educators were concerned about learners’ social, emotional, and physical well-being; however, PreK-12 teachers were most affected by inequities that limited how they reached and taught students. 
● Language educators might find it more difficult to find and participate in discipline-specific professional development particularly during times of educational disruption like COVID-19. 
● Partnerships between PreK-12 and post-secondary language educators and institutions might benefit all educators, particularly if initiatives lead to the development and dissemination of resources. 
● Principles of trauma-informed pedagogy might be considered to support learners.   