
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Language learning and teaching (LLT) materials — like teacher-created handouts, textbooks, and overhead transparencies — are central elements of language classrooms worldwide. In recent years, the study of how materials are used in language learning settings like classrooms has emerged as a groundbreaking area of research. Nonetheless, this field is still understudied, undertheorized, and poorly understood. A likely reason for this is the lack of clear definitions around this key element of language teaching and learning — namely, materials. It may be surprising that language education researchers lack such basic understanding of what constitutes ‘LLT materials.’ Therefore, this article offers research-based definitions of the concepts of ‘LLT materials’ and ‘materials use.’ These definitions are based on a metasynthesis (i.e., a qualitative analysis) of all of the materials used in 7 different qualitative studies in Ojibwe, Japanese, French, and English teaching contexts in three continents. In addition to offering these definitions of LLT materials and materials use, this is also the introductory article to a special issue on materials use, which includes the 7 different studies that inform the metasynthesis. 
What the researchers did
 
● Conducted a qualitative analysis (i.e., metasynthesis) of all the LLT materials and examples of materials use across the 7 articles. 
● For these analyses, used the conceptual lens of ‘sociomaterialism,’ a relatively novel research orientation in language education that by definition seeks to understand connections between the social and the material. 
● Answered the question “What are LLT materials?” by analyzing the types of entities that constituted materials and the phenomena that enabled their existences across all 7 studies. 
● Answered the question “What constitutes materials use?” by examining the examples of ‘materials use’ across all 7 studies, focusing on the actions and purposes involved with each example. 
What the researchers found
 
● ‘LLT materials’ and ‘materials use’ are sibling constructs best understood in terms of one another because what constitutes a material depends on it being used as such in a particular pedagogical context. 
● ‘LLT materials’ are defined as (a) physical entities, (b) texts, (c) environments, (d) signs, and (e) technologies within the perceptual field of the learner(s) or teacher(s), which are used in a principled way to facilitate language pedagogy. 
● Prototypical materials (e.g., PowerPoint slides, worksheets) as well as more ‘unconventional’ examples of materials (e.g., cell phones, objects found in nature) are presented and discussed. 
● The working definition of ‘materials use’ is as: entangled and emergent influences among the teacher(s) and/or learner(s) and one or more LLT materials. 
● ‘Distributed agency’ is also central to the working definition of ‘materials use.’ By definition, distributed agency acknowledges that (a) agency is ‘shared’ rather than residing in the individual, and (b) a given act is not typically accomplished by an individual but rather by multiple human and non-human entities. 
Things to consider
 
● The definitions of LLT materials and materials use presented in this article offer researchers and teachers in the broader field of language education ‘common’ terminology for analyzing and understanding materials. 
● Examples of LLT materials and materials use in this article relate to foreign, second, and Indigenous language pedagogy.  