
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Linguistically responsive instruction (LRI) is a framework of both orientations and practices that K-12 (primary and secondary) educators implement to more effectively and equitably teach Emergent Bilingual/English Learner students. Developing these orientations and practices—such as sociolinguistic consciousness, an ability to recognize language demands of content-area lessons, and knowledge of second language acquisition, among others--during teacher education at the tertiary level is an essential component of addressing linguistic diversity in schools. In this qualitative study, researchers explored the language ideologies that emerged among Latinx Teacher Candidates (TCs) during LRI tasks. They found that engaging in LRI afforded TCs space to explore tensions surrounding ideological orientations towards themselves, their future learners, and society. 
What the researchers did
 
● 50 Latinx TCs participated in reflection tasks that prompted them to reflect on circulating assumptions about language use and language users 
● For these tasks, TCs reflected upon (1) their language practices using a language portrait, (2) their imagined students’ language using sample utterances, and (3) language ideologies in circulation using an ideology tree diagram. 
● Researchers then conducted thematic analysis of the text and images that TCs generated in these tasks. In the analysis, researchers examined the ways in which these tasks enabled TCs to critically engage with circulating assumptions about the language practices of language minoritized speakers. Researchers also noted the dilemmas that TCs faced as they reconciled research-based knowledge of language practices and circulating non-expert assumptions. 
What the researchers found
 
● TCs identified or referenced the following ideologies: language hierarchy and separation o academic/standard language (identified most frequently) o o neoliberalism o one nation, one language o raciolinguistic ideologies  
● TCs held conflicting perceptions of language practices across spaces (school, home, community) and scales (self, learner, society). 
● TCs hesitated to locate language ideologies within the school setting, despite how often they recounted experiencing language separation and academic/standard language ideologies during formal schooling. 
● For many TCs, language and ethno-racialized identity were so intertwined that some hesitated to claim their Spanish language practices (i.e., position themselves as legitimate users of Spanish) and questioned their ethnic authenticity. 
Things to consider
 
● Implications include the importance of teaching about and modeling the use of linguistically responsive instruction in tertiary classrooms, especially in teacher education programs 
● Both ideological clarity and ideological dilemmas emerge when TCs engage in linguistically responsive instruction. Identification of the dilemmas in a community might challenge and unsettle deficit or subtractive narratives. 
● Unpacking the ideological infrastructure of teaching context and student community can contribute to the disruption of less nuanced approaches to serving linguistically diverse learners in higher education 