
What this research was about and why it is important 
  This research aimed to understand more about the attitudes of English language students in Malaysia towards English speakers and English-speaking communities. In particular, it aimed to discover the level of learners’ willingness to adopt characteristics of the target language community (integrativeness), as measured by (a) their interest in or openness to learning English to learn about or interact with English speakers and/or their cultures (integrative orientation), (b) their interest in foreign languages and (c) their attitudes to the learning situation. It was important to try to assess the strength of this very specific combination of attitudes (integrativeness) because, although integrativeness has been linked to language success among second language learners in the past, it has been claimed that it may no longer be relevant or even present at all in modern contexts due to changes in the ways in which English is used, thought of and learned in the modern world. To test whether such attitudes are still present in modern groups of English learners, the researchers gathered data about the attitudes of high school students using questionnaires, tested the data to check its suitability for analysis, then analyzed the data using statistical methods. They found that, contrary to expectations, robust levels of integrativeness were present among the participants. 
What the researchers did
 
● Gave a questionnaire to almost 300 learners of English in Malaysia. The learners were aged between 15 and 16 and had been learning English as a compulsory school subject for many years. 
● The students were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a series of carefully designed statements on a scale of 1 to 5. For each statement, the students were asked to check 1 for ‘strongly disagree’, 2 for ‘disagree’, 3 for ‘neutral or not sure’, 4 for ‘agree’ and 5 for ‘strongly agree’. 
● The statements in the questionnaire were designed to assess the students’ level of interest in foreign languages, attitudes towards the target language community, and desire to learn English to communicate with or learn more about English speakers and their cultures. These three scores yielded an overall integrativeness score. 
What the researchers found
 
● The average score out of five for interest in foreign languages was 3.99. 
● The average score for attitudes towards English-speaking communities was 3.78. 
● The average score for a desire to learn English to learn about or communicate with English speakers and their cultures was 3.71. 
● The average score for integrativeness, which was calculated by averaging the scores for interest in foreign languages, attitudes towards English-speaking communities and interest in learning more about the culture of or communicating with English speakers (the three constructs mentioned above) was 3.83. 
● This suggested that on average, the students had positive attitudes towards foreign languages, English speakers and their communities, learning English to communicate with or learn more about English speakers and their culture. 
Things to consider
 
● Prominent criticisms of integrativeness may not be quite as persuasive as previously thought. 
● Students learning English in a modern non-SLL context were shown to have robust levels of integrativeness. 
● Such attitudes could have been caused by relatively open attitudes towards and interest in outgroups. 
● This study tested on the existence of integrativeness, not its relation to motivation (and thus achievement). 
● As a next step, it would be useful to test the relationship of integrativeness to motivation (and thus achievement). 
● The limitations include the facts that participants were drawn from just a few schools in one geographical area, the relationship between integrativeness and motivation was not tested, and the meaning of the terms ‘English speaker’ and ‘English-speaking country’ were not defined for participants. 
● What do you think? Does a student’s willingness to adopt features of another language community affect his or her overall success in learning that community’s language? 