
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Over sixty years of second language (L2) motivation research has generated several motivational theories focused on explaining what motivates learners to engage in L2 learning. But what motivates L2 learners only makes one part of their motivation. How the L2 learners pursue their L2 goals is another important part of their motivation. In this study, we examined how students differ in the ways they pursue their L2 learning goals by applying a motivation theory called regulatory mode theory from social psychology to the field of language learning. The theory consists of two modes of self-regulation: assessment and locomotion. The assessment mode is concerned with critically evaluating L2 learning goals and the means to achieve them. The locomotion mode, on the other hand, is concerned with uninterrupted movement from state to state toward L2 goals. We developed two questionnaire scales to measure these modes of self-regulation in language learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● A total of 918 English as a foreign language (EFL) learners from two private English institutions and two private universities in Iran were recruited in two independent studies. Most of the students self-reported their English proficiency as intermediate or upper-intermediate. The language-learning experience of the students also ranged from 1 to 240 months.  
●  Data were collected by using a questionnaire consisting of two sections: The first section contained 35 items measuring seven motivational and emotional variables, and the second section elicited background information, such as age, gender, and perceived English proficiency. 
What the researchers found
 
● The questionnaire scales developed to assess L2 assessment and locomotion modes were sound, reliable, and valid. 
● Students with a pre-dominant assessment mode experienced more L2 speaking anxiety, and the students with a pre-dominant locomotion experienced more enjoyment in learning English. 
● Although students’ assessment and locomotion modes similarly increased their intended effort and attention, only the locomotion mode strongly increased their willingness to communicate in English. 
● Students who were strong in both locomotion and assessment modes outperformed those who were high in either mode of self-regulation in terms of emotional, motivational, linguistic outcomes. 
Things to consider
 
● In this paper, we shifted the focus from what motivates L2 learners to how L2 learners pursue their motivational goals. We found that the quality of the manners in which learners pursue goals play significant parts in their language learning behaviors, emotional experiences, and achievement. 
● Future research should further examine how L2 learners’ self-regulatory modes are related to their motivational goals, emotional reactions, task performance, and characteristics of their spoken and written output. 
● One of the main findings of our study was that both L2 self-regulatory modes should work together for optimal results in L2 learning. As such, we favor a motivational approach that aims to enhance both self-regulatory modes in L2 settings.  