
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Recent studies on North Korean defectors’ adjustment to South Korean schools have reported that many of them face academic challenges, particularly due to their struggles with English. Such studies have typically regarded North Korean students as an underprivileged group by comparing their achievements to those of their South Korean peers. Only a few studies have documented individual learners’ narratives on their second language (L2)-learning which can offer insights into the transnational experiences that may have shaped their agency and identities across time and space. This study presents one North Korean defector’s personal narratives about his English-learning experiences in three sociopolitical settings of North Korea, South Korea, and the US. The findings illustrate how the participant was able to use his North Korean identity as cultural capital and highlight the importance of learner agency and imagined future self as significant tools for understanding the complexity, multiplicity, and fluidity in L2 learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● As a follow-up to a previous study (Shin & Park, 2019), the researchers chose one North Korean student from Shin and Park’s research and conducted a case study focusing on that participant. 
● The participant had lived and studied L2-English in three different contexts: North Korea, South Korea, and the US. Three separate interviews were conducted over a period of three years. 
● The participant’s narratives focused on his English-learning experiences and the valuation of his attitudes toward English in different settings. 
● The researchers identified three salient themes from the participant’s narratives: how the participant’s views of English and English learning evolved over time and geographical location; how the participant used his North Korean identity to his own advantage, and how the participant’s vision of his ideal future self motivated him to enhance his English skills. 
What the researchers found
 
● In North Korea, the participant had no motivation to study English as he did not see any practical use for it. In South Korea, he saw English as an important skill that could lead to academic and professional success. While in the US, he realized that good English skills were critical not only in achieving success in South Korea but also in achieving his dreams elsewhere, which transcends the physical space he resides in, to an imagined community where he envisions himself to be. 
● The participant ultimately came to view English as a tool that can help achieve his dream of becoming an important person who can help reunify North and South Korea. 
● While most North Koreans hide their accent and identity, the participant was open to revealing his background as a North Korean and maintaining his native accent. He believed that disclosing his North Korean accent and identity can make him more visible and help others to remember him better. This was deemed important since he wants to be an influential person who can help reunify the two Koreas. 
Things to consider
 
● The participant’s aspirations and dreams motivated him to access the cultural capital necessary to achieve his goals. This suggests that learners’ transnational identities and imagined future selves can strongly motivate their language learning. 
● Not all refugee-background students have the confidence and belief in themselves to dream as big as the participant in this study. However, teachers can help empower these students by reminding them of the assets and capabilities they come equipped with. 
● It is important for scholars and practitioners to dispel preconceived notions about refugee students as deficient learners; instead, educators must seek to adopt a more asset-based discourse and pedagogy for these students. 