
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Rubrics have become a staple in second language (L2) writing programs, helping teachers to focus their assessment of student writing and offering an indication of areas of strength and difficulty for individual learners. Our study used rubrics as part of a Dynamic Assessment (DA) of student writing in a university English academic writing program. DA is an assessment framework that includes an element of teaching as part of the assessment itself. DA is based on the theories of the Russian psychologist L. S. Vygotsky, in particular, the Zone of Proximal Development (ZPD). The ZPD refers to abilities that have only begun to develop, knowledge that learners are only beginning to be able to use. For this reason, tasks that learners might not be able to complete successfully on their own but that are within their reach when they are cooperating with a teacher or other expert can be understood as within their ZPD. DA is concerned with identifying each learner’s ZPD by providing help (referred to by Vygotsky as ‘mediation’) to learners during an assessment as they need it. This is especially important for teachers because instruction, according to Vygotsky, is most likely to help learners develop their abilities if it is aimed at the ZPD. Our study was concerned with how rubrics could be used in DA to focus the kind of support teachers offer learners while they work together to revise student writing. 
What the researchers did
 Our research questions: (1) In what ways might rubric ratings of learner writing prior to and immediately following DA inform a diagnosis that includes the ZPD? and (2) How might annotating the rubric to indicate specific areas of learner difficult and how much support was provided during DA also contribute to this diagnosis? The study followed three steps. 
● First, learners prepared an essay draft on an assigned topic. Then, they met one-on-one with a writing teacher, and together they reviewed the writing. During this review, the teacher offered hints, reminders, leading questions, and feedback using a rubric to focus on specific features of academic writing (content, organization, language accuracy, and language range and complexity). The teacher also made notes, annotating the rubric to record how much support was provided, on which features of writing, and how responsive students were (for instance, whether the student recognized errors and attempted corrections). 
● Following this, the students each revised their writing independently. Then two raters separately reviewed each 
● student’s initial draft and revised draft and rated them using the same rubric. In this way, the ratings were compared in order to see which areas, if any, showed improvement following the students’ DA interaction with the teacher. This information addressed the first research question while the notes made by the teacher during DA helped shed light on the second question. 
● We also reported examples of teacher-learner DA interactions in order to showcase processes of teachers providing support, learners responding, and what this revealed about their current abilities and knowledge. 
What the researchers found
 In our paper, we limit our presentation of the study’s findings to two learners (assigned the names Amir and Hina) who represent the variety of abilities and needs we found among all the participants. 
● Hina’s ratings were initially lower than Amir’s but following DA her scores either matched or surpassed his. Without DA (only looking at initial drafts) we would have misunderstood or under-estimated Hina’s writing abilities. In addition, the precise areas where they experienced the most difficulty was different (organization for Amir and content and language accuracy for Hina), meaning that instruction should focus on different areas for them. 

Things to consider
 Our paper concludes with suggestions for ways in which this approach might be used in a classroom, possibly by: 
● Rubrics can be useful not only as teachers grade student work but also to focus teacher support to learners while reviewing their writing, and this joint review can be an assessment (identifying students’ emerging abilities) 
● Using the rubrics as part of DA can help differentiate instruction according to learner responsiveness to support. 
● DA might be done with groups of learners or by placing learners with similar struggles in groups to support one another. 