
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Linguistic schoolscapes can represent the identity and image of educational institutions as semi-public contexts which emphasise education and learning. This study explored institutional identity as cultural and educational, looking specifically at linguistic schoolscapes which represent an image of internationalisation while maintaining a Chinese culture and a space for minority language education (Zhuang). Our analysis emphasised the social meaning of the schoolscapes (a ‘geosemiotic perspective’). We found that the universities used linguistic schoolscapes to present an image of quality education and internationalisation while allowing a smaller, symbolic function to the minority language. In principle, linguistic schoolscapes could provide pedagogical opportunities for multilingual education. However, in the context we investigated these pedagogical opportunities were limited, especially for minority ethnic language education. This results in a weak environment for Zhuang vitality. 
What the researchers did
 
● They collected 833 signs from six schools in three universities with minority languages, in one region of China; 
● They analysed the informational and symbolic functions of the schoolscapes along three dimensions: physical, political and experiential; 
● To better understand the experiential dimension, they interviewed 16 teachers and 43 students, some of whom are minority language (Zhuang) speakers. 
What the researchers found
 
● According to the information and symbolic functions, the image of internationalized higher education is evident. There is a high percentage of bilingual Chinese and English signs and some presence of ASEAN languages; 
● While multilingual education is somewhat supported by multilingual signs, the use of Zhuang is limited, tends to be less visually prominent and is not used for informational functions; 
● Pedagogical possibilities for multilingual education are supported by a strong awareness of English in signs and students’ cross linguistic knowledge. However, students’ Zhuang literacy was insufficient to reinforce Zhuang knowledge through use of the linguistic schoolscapes. 
Things to consider
 
● A dearth of monolingual Zhuang suggests that the use of Zhuang is primarily symbolic rather than informational. The linguistic schoolscape evidenced Zhuang as an attempt at cultural affiliation but an actual lower status as compared to Chinese and English. 
● A comparison of signs on and off campus raises further questions about the standardisation and valorisation of Zhuang language. 
● Additional policy efforts are in need to better support the survival of Zhuang language and Zhuang culture affiliation in this region. 