
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The researchers explored how the display of languages in public spaces (the study of linguistic landscapes), can help language learning and awareness. This study drew together research on linguistic landscapes and education, showing how the study of linguistic landscapes can be brought into the classroom context, and vice-versa. The researchers examined the presence of languages in school settings, moving to focus on the outcomes of linguistic landscape-based tasks undertaken by Primary, and University level students. The researchers also highlighted the opportunities for informal language learning beyond the classroom, through the lens of a local market. Results showed that linguistic landscapes offer potential for increasing language acquisition and awareness of multilingualism in society. 
What the researchers did
 
● The paper focused on the (Spanish) Basque country, an area where Basque and Spanish have co-official status, and other languages (e.g., Arabic, Berber, Bulgarian, Chinese, Turkish), and varieties of Spanish, are spoken. 
● Data collected included photos of textual items from school settings (c. 500 photographs), and of a market. 
● Other data was collected following tasks set to Primary pupils and University (Masters-level) students. o Primary pupils were given photos of texts in public space to think about language hierarchy and diversity. They then photographed texts in their area, following this with a lesson about the words in their photos and the linguistic elements from which they are made (i.e., derivatives or compounds). o Masters students developed a linguistic landscape study, looking at the location of signage, its meaning, questions of multilingualism, and how co-occurring elements, e.g., colour / font, contribute to its meaning.  
● Data from Primary and University students included photographs of languages in public space captured themselves during their assignments, as well as testimonials from their experiences on the tasks. 
What the researchers found
 
● The language(s) used in texts within the school landscape served different functions: to teach subjects or the target language; raise awareness of Basque; teach values; develop intercultural skills; and reflect students’ backgrounds. 
● Primary students’ testimonials pointed to an increased language awareness, and skill-building in other languages. 
● After their projects, Master’s students commented they were more aware of signs thanks to the task. It also helped them to bridge theory and practice in their study of multilingualism and education. 
● Public texts in the market could provide language learning input. Points included: how signs ‘pointed to’ the product being sold, helping the viewer to learn the word on-display; how texts could encourage reflection on the similarities or differences between words in small and majority languages; how the hierarchy (order) of languages could prompt thoughts about their statuses; how bilingual marketing in the heritage language (Basque) and majority language (Spanish), might prompt customers to incorporate Basque in interactions with the stallholder. 
Things to consider
 
● Languages on display in public spaces were an important resource for language teaching and learning. 
● Linguistic landscape tasks for Primary and University students helped raise awareness of local multilingualism. 
● The market study showed there are opportunities for the wider public to learn through linguistic landscapes. 
● The authors remarked that linguistic landscapes can be accessed online, through e.g., Streetview, useful where a given language learned by a group of students is not present in their immediate area. 