
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Most research studies do not focus on the participants themselves, preferring to look for general influences or performances by all learners, for example, when given different types of instruction. The present study, in contrast, explores whether there are different subgroups of learners, as this is reflected in their performances on two language learning tasks. If so, this may have implications for research methods in second language studies more broadly. Two contrasting tasks were used, one a non-interactive narrative based on telling the story in a series of pictures, and the other an interactive task requiring pairs to agree on advice over a series of personal problems. Performances on these tasks were measured in terms of language complexity, accuracy, and fluency. Then the data were analysed using cluster analysis, which identifies subgroups who have similar profiles across the performance measures. These subgroups were examined for each task separately, and then the subgroups were compared across the two tasks. Two groups (or styles) emerged. One seemed to focus on the clause level, and typically showed less fluency, with longer clauses, and more repairs such as repetition and reformulation. The other group seemed to have a longer unit of speech, larger than the clause, with more complex sentences, and with greater fluency. Neither group was more accurate than the other. 
What the researchers did
 
● We collected data from 48 first language (L1) Chinese learners of English as a second language (L2) doing two speaking tasks. We transcribed this data, and then coded it for complexity, accuracy and fluency, and computed scores for each participant in each area. 
● We used methods of data analysis which identified groups of participants whose performance profiles (or styles) on the two tasks were similar within groups, but differed between groups. The two tasks were chosen to contrast with one another – a narrative based on a series of pictures, and an interactive decision-making task requiring advice to be agreed to be given to the 'writers' of letters to a magazine Agony Aunt. 
● We also explored the consistency of which style a participant had on the first task with the style they had on the second. 
What the researchers found
 
● How fluently the participants spoke was the most consistent area of performance across the two tasks. 
● Two major subgroups of participants emerged. The first group seemed to focus on a clause-at-a-time approach, with longer clauses and more problems within a clause, while the second group seemed to operate with longer stretches of language, with more clauses in each sentence, and fewer fluency problems. 
● The two style groupings carried over from one task to another, decision-making to narrative, but only to a certain extent. Just under half the participants maintained the same style across tasks. 
Things to consider
 
● This is the first such study that we know of, of this type, so any conclusions have to be tentative. 
● Second language learners, when given speaking tasks to do, seem to approach this challenge in different ways, with some focusing on detail and shorter stretches of language (inside a clause) and others being more concerned with 'the big picture,' and producing longer stretches. This may be linked to how far ahead they plan what they are going to say. Interestingly, this is not simply a reflection of higher or lower proficiency. 
● Neither group can be considered better than the other – it is simply that they are different. It may be, though, that instruction would benefit by being adapted to the different speaking styles. 
● The (limited) evidence that learners carry over style from one task to another is intriguing. The tasks were chosen to contrast, and it may be that less different tasks would see more consistency in style. Equally, more contrasting tasks might see less. The task vs. style balance is an interesting tension for future research. 
● The findings might provide food for thought in instructional contexts, and sensitise teachers to preferred modes of communication by their students. 