
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Linguistically responsive instruction is a framework of teaching which aims to support learners from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. While this framework has received substantial research attention in educating younger learners, it remains an under-investigated topic in higher education. Among the scarce existing studies examining linguistically responsive instruction at the university level, most focus exclusively on teachers without taking into consideration multilingual students’ actual needs for language support. As an effort to fill this research hole, we conducted an exploratory qualitative study to understand the academic and linguistic experiences of a group of multilingual students throughout their first semester in university. Our findings drew attention to students’ challenges, coping strategies and interactions within the university community and highlighted the within-group differences among multilingual students from the same ethnic and language backgrounds. Based on the results, we proposed a student-centered model to envision linguistically responsive instruction in higher education. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited twelve first-semester Chinese international students from an American university, among whom three had received high school diplomas in the U.S. while nine had had completed all their previous education in China. 
● Our data included two interviews with each participant (N=24), bilingual language logs documenting participants’ language usage throughout a typical weekday and a weekend day (N=24), and a four-month digital ethnographic observation of participants’ public posts on WeChat, a popular Chinese social media platform. 
● We performed inductive coding to identify common themes and patterns across our data sources. 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants’ needs for linguistic and academic support were different depending on whether they came directly from their home country as opposed to having experienced high school in the U.S. Those students with no prior experiences studying in English-speaking classrooms faced substantially more linguistic and cultural difficulties. Conversely, those participants who had had received secondary education in the U.S. reported no English challenges throughout the semester, among whom one even worried about losing Chinese due to his high proficiency in English. 
● Despite their multilingual identities, participants held strong monolingual ideologies, regarding English as a more prestigious and desirable medium of communication. Such ideologies led to tensions between the two groups of students and consequently prevented them from providing mutual support to each other. 
Things to consider
 Based on our findings, we proposed a student-centered framework for linguistically responsive instruction in higher education. The table summarizes our suggested instructor ideology and teaching practice in response to students’ needs: Instructor Ideology Instructor Skill for Practice 
● Sociolinguistic consciousness 
● Value for linguistic diversity and commitment to create a linguistic diverse classroom environment 
● Inclination to advocate for multilingual students and support them within and beyond the classroom 
● Strategies for learning about the linguistic and academic backgrounds beyond standardized test results, college readiness based on previous educational experiences, and within-group differences among multilingual students 
● Ability to apply key principles of second language learning to help students meet the discipline-specific linguistic demands in English, and allow home language usage as a bridging tool 
● Ability to identify the language demands of classroom tasks, and pay attention to cultural congruency 
● Strategies for supporting multilingual students both inside and outside of the classrooms 