
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Conjunctions help a reader to understand what they are reading by making it clear that there are logical relationships between the ideas in the text. Conjunctions are connecting words in language, for example, but, because, and although. Conjunctions may be difficult for English language learners (ELLs) to use for gaining understanding because they can be uncommon words that do not represent something picturable, and because of their helping role in connecting the ideas in what is being read. The goal of this study was to shed light on the relationships among general vocabulary knowledge, how conjunctions are understood, and reading comprehension. The participants were elementary school-aged children in grades 3 and 4, whose first language was not English. Results suggest there is an overlap in general vocabulary and conjunction comprehension that partially explains how reading comprehension skill differs across individual ELLs. Conjunctions represent a special form of vocabulary that should be considered distinct when thinking about how ELL children develop, and when teaching them about vocabulary. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study took place longitudinally over 2 years while the participants involved were in grades 3 to 4. 
● Seventy-four (74) ELL children with different first languages participated. 
● Students completed tests in the following areas: reading comprehension; comprehension of conjunctions within text; general vocabulary; decoding (tested by reading words that follow the rules of English but are not real English words); working memory (or the memory used when engaging in a task); and nonverbal reasoning (or the ability to complete visually presented patterns). 
● A statistical approach called ‘path analysis’, which can determine which variables influence others, was used to clarify the relationships among reading comprehension, general vocabulary, and comprehension of conjunctions. 
What the researchers found
 
● Comprehension of conjunctions, specifically, is directly related to reading comprehension in grades 3 and 4. This means that when a reader can use and understand the conjunctions in a descriptive text, they gain a deeper understanding of the text. 
● Comprehension of conjunctions is also indirectly related to reading comprehension ‘through’ general vocabulary: When a reader has good general vocabulary, they also have a good understanding about conjunctions, and this helps with their reading comprehension. 
● The vocabulary already known by a reader and their prior reading comprehension skill also explain their current reading comprehension. 
Things to consider
 
● These findings support the idea that conjunctions are a special form of vocabulary. 
● To better understand individual differences in reading development for ELLs, specific types of vocabulary should not always be considered as being the same as general vocabulary. 
● The results suggest it would be useful to examine the potential benefits of explicitly teaching specific types of vocabulary, like conjunctions, in addition to general or academic vocabulary, to help with ELL readers’ comprehension. 