
What this research was about and why it is important 
 People who immigrate as children tend to reach higher levels of second language proficiency than those who immigrate as adults. Some studies have suggested that this is because children mainly rely on a type of unconscious learning (implicit learning) that adults no longer have access to. This study tested this idea by measuring the grammar knowledge of long-term second language learners who had learned their language either as immigrants or in a classroom, and who had started learning at a wide range of ages. We also took cognitive measures of short-term memory and implicit learning into account. We found that only immersed learners’ grammar knowledge showed signs of having been learned implicitly, and this was regardless of the age they had started learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 71 native speakers of Polish who learned English as a second language. Half of them (35) learned English when they immigrated to the United Kingdom, and half (36) learned as foreign language students in Poland. We also tested 30 native speakers of British English. 
● All Polish participants were fluent daily users of both English and Polish, with English at an upper-intermediate or advanced level. They had a minimum of 12 years of exposure to English, and had started learning English between the ages of 1 year and 35 years. 
● We tested all participants’ grammar knowledge by asking them to listen to 110 English sentences and tell us whether they were correct. Half of the sentences contained errors. Polish participants were also given two cognitive tests: a short–term memory test, and an implicit-learning test. 
● We compared how the two groups performed on the grammar test, and how it was related to the age they started learning English, and to their short-term memory and implicit learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● For Polish immigrants to the U.K., people who had immigrated as children had better grammar knowledge than those who came as teenagers, who were better than those who came as adults. For instructed learners of English in Poland, age was not as important. 
● For Polish immigrants to the U.K., short-term memory and implicit learning abilities were related to how well they performed on the grammar test. For instructed learners in Poland, memory and implicit learning were not related to their performance on the grammar test. 
● For Polish immigrants to the U.K., having a good short-term memory was more important for those who had started when they were teenagers or adults. Implicit learning ability was important regardless of the age they started. 
Things to consider
 
● The role of the age at which one begins to learn a language, short-term memory, and implicit learning was different for immigrant learners compared to classroom learners. This suggests that learning in immersion situations is different from classroom learning, and we should be cautious in applying findings from immigrant studies to the classroom. 
● In immigrant learners, the importance of implicit learning ability was the same for all learners, regardless of the age they started. This suggests that children and adults can use the same type of learning if they are immersed in the language. 
● Finally, in immigrant learners, having a good short-term memory was more important for those who started as teens or adults. It seems that having a good short-term memory can to some extent help ‘make up for’ starting learning later. 