
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Mobile technology has benefits for various aspects of language learning, and in this digital age video-making tasks are more and more common. Mobile-assisted, video-making tasks are increasingly used in a range of teaching and learning contexts. One question that second language (L2) researchers and practitioners might ask is what types of students have higher outcomes when completing such tasks. The current study investigated how adolescent English as a Foreign Language (EFL) students’ English writing proficiency, first language (L1) narrative ability, digital literacy, intrinsic motivation, and extrinsic motivation contribute to the outcome quality of a video-making task. The video making task consisted of three components: Use of multi-modes (use of, for example, texts, pictures, and music to make meaning), language use, and task fulfillment (content and organization). Forty-eight students completed a video-making task using a mobile application during their regular English class. They created a self-introduction storytelling video about their experiences of success or failure in their life. We found that students’ English writing proficiency and L1 narrative ability contribute to the quality of language use and task fulfillment of this mobile-assisted, video-making task outcome. 
What the researchers did
 
● Korean EFL students first completed a language background survey and wrote two essays. One was in English to measure English writing proficiency. The other, written in Korean on the same topic as the video-making task, was used to measure L1 narrative ability. 
● Students received training on how to use a mobile video-editing application and how to perform a video-making task. 
● Before the task performance, students spent 30 minutes planning on their own how to complete the task. 
● Over two class sessions (100 minutes total), students each produced one self-introduction storytelling video. 
● After the task, students completed a digital literacy questionnaire that measured their level of digital abilities (e.g., English typing skill on a cellphone, editing pictures). They also completed a motivation questionnaire to measure both intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. 
● Students’ mobile-assisted, video-making task outcomes were rated using an analytic rubric, which assesses three components: Use of multi-modes, language use, and task fulfillment. 
What the researchers found
 
● Out of five learner-related factors, English (L2) writing proficiency and L1 narrative ability were the only contributors to the quality of language use and the level of task fulfillment.  
● No learner-related factors contributed to use of multi-modes of the video-making task. 
● Students showed different patterns in use of multi-modes. The majority of high English ability students underused multi-modes and overused language to convey their message. Although some low English ability students made efforts to compensate for their limited language abilities with multi-modes, many students were not directed towards a compensation strategy by resorting to multi-modes. 
Things to consider
 
● Learners who were capable of producing both high quality English texts and Korean narratives used higher quality of English language in their mobile-assisted video projects and produced adequately developed, well-organized videos. Learners who had low levels of English writing ability and Korean narration did not show high achievement in terms of accurate and complex language use or task fulfillment (i.e., content and organization). 
● Before performing a video-making task, helping students have clear and sufficient topic knowledge and understanding of the genre through planning activities is important. 
● Acknowledging two patterns (i.e., underuse of multi-modes and overuse of language by high ability students and underuse of multi-modes by low ability students) in the use of multi-modes, teachers may need to offer explicit strategy training sessions to high and low proficiency students to leverage diverse multi-modes and importance of semiotic harmony. 