
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Knowing several languages (multilingualism), being familiar with diverse cultures (multiculturalism), and being creative have been associated with students’ academic and professional success. Research has also found that creativity can be improved when students know several languages and live in diverse countries. However, less is known about to what extent multilingualism without a different culture being involved affects creativity. To fill this gap, this study examined this relationship in two different bilingual situations: Spanish-Galician (same cultural context) and Spanish-English (different cultural context). A survey was devised to elicit students’ multilingualism, multicultural experiences, and creativity. The results showed that advanced English skills and Spanish-English bilingualism improved creativity. They also confirmed that living in a new cultural context benefits bilingualism/multilingualism (English) and creativity. However, no differences were found when students were bilingual in the same cultural context (Galician-Spanish). Thus, bilingualism/multilingualism seemed to impact creativity only when it occurred in different cultural contexts. The most significant implication emphasizes the need to foster opportunities for multiculturalism to increase creativity. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was set in a bilingual community with two official languages, Spanish and Galician, to check if there were differences based on language knowledge and the context. Practically all inhabitants know the two languages as both are used in everyday communication, school, university, administration, the media, and the arts. In this case, the two languages are integrated into the same cultural context. On the contrary, English is included in the education system as a compulsory foreign language. It is considered necessary as the commonly accepted language for international communication. It is not integrated into the Galician-Spanish culture. 
● To get the necessary information, the researchers designed a survey that measured the following factors: students’ creativity, knowledge of several languages and experiences in different countries and cultures where English was the common vehicle for communication for at least one term. 
● 303 university students filled in the resulting 20-minute survey. The questionnaire was available in different languages and distributed through the online university platform. Participation was anonymous and voluntary. 
● Researchers analysed the results and compared the different relationships between the concepts under study. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students’ creative potential was high, while specific areas of their creativity, such as originality, were lower. 
● Students with more advanced communication skills were more creative. 
● Having lived in a different country where English was used as a common language of international communication was related to a higher English level. 
● Spanish-English bilingual students were more creative than Spanish-Galician bilingual students. 
● There were no differences in creativity when the two languages were expressions of the same cultural context. 
● Creativity was improved only when it involved a different cultural context. 
Things to consider
 
● Students who travelled abroad improved both their English level and their creative skills. 
● It seems a safe pedagogical option to encourage the knowledge of foreign languages and stays in various countries to increase creativity. Given the importance of the cultural component for creativity, fostering opportunities for multiculturalism seems highly beneficial. 
● Teachers could integrate activities that expand the limitations of the classroom by incorporating multicultural experiences, such as fostering contact with exchange students and multicultural projects aimed at acquiring both intercultural and creative skills. Among the actions to promote, we can highlight those oriented to the interaction and socialisation between local and incoming students and the organisation of specific interactive and cooperative activities. In this way, students can share different multicultural experiences in their own country and improve their creativity. 
● The comparison between the two linguistic situations verified our hypothesis that being bilingual/ multilingual or highly proficient in several languages does not necessarily improve creativity unless immersion in a different culture is involved. However, further research using other contexts, languages and types of bilingualism could confirm these findings and better understand creativity, multilingualism, and multiculturalism. 