
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Vocabulary learning has been shown to be a strong component of learning another language. Accordingly, second language (L2) researchers have been interested in the L2 vocabulary learning process with instructed (classroom-based) vocabulary experiments being of particular interest. Instructed L2 vocabulary experiments compare how learners acquire new vocabulary items under different learning conditions. In this study, how these experiments constructed their samples (groups of participants) was analyzed. Sample construction is an important aspect of experimental research because deficiencies in the process can lead to inaccurate inferences about the population that sample is supposed to represent. Three aspects of sample construction were analyzed by the researchers. The first was how instructed L2 vocabulary experimental researchers planned the number of participants required for their studies, i.e., sample size. Such planning can be conducted using different strategies but referencing of effect sizes (i.e., the quantified results observed in the sample) in relevant prior research tends to underpin these. The second was how samples were designed to avoid unintended influences (i.e., bias) through a process called randomization. The first component of randomization investigated was random sampling which pertains to drawing participants randomly from the intended population. Randomized assignment was the second component and is specific to experiments. Samples employing randomized assignment have participants assigned to different experimental conditions by chance. Prior L2 methods literature has found that true random sampling is outside the field’s practical scope and multi-site samples have been presented as compromise between fully randomized samples and single-site samples which lead to possibly inaccurate inferences about the population. In light of this, the extent to which the analyzed reports employed multi-site samples was investigated as the third and final aspect of sample design. Taken together, this inquiry acts as a review of existing experimental L2 vocabulary samples while highlighting areas for improvement. Such improvement would lead to better inferences about how language languages acquire L2 vocabulary under different learning conditions.    
What the researchers did
 
● 110 studies published by classroom-based second language vocabulary acquisition researchers were collected from six well-respected journals. 
● The studies were coded for effect size-driven sample size planning, randomization, and multi-site use. 
● Results were presented as tallied counts and then the associations between each coded judgement about sample design and time (the year of the report’s publication) were analyzed. 
What the researchers found
 
● Only one study planned their sample size beforehand with only a few even defending the size of their sample relative to effect sizes. No study’s sample featured randomized sampling and over half of the reports featured randomized assignment. These observations corresponded to past research on L2 sample design. 
● This was one of the first reports to analyze multi-site use and it was observed that approximately 15% of the studies employed such samples.  
● Of all the judgments about sample designs presented, only multi-site use had a noteworthy association with time where a small, yet significant correlation was observed. 
Things to consider
 
● In the main, L2 vocabulary experimental designs have been over-reliant on single-site samples that were not planned in reference to prior effect sizes in relevant past research. This presents issues in terms of published generalizations about L2 vocabulary learning. 
● The finding that randomized assignment has been used in most of the reports was positive and points towards researchers trying to reduce unintended influences in their research. 
● The use of small, single-site samples with publication bias towards the publishing of large effects could be problematic if not addressed by future L2 vocabulary researchers. 
● The results of the present study are specific to second language vocabulary research and may or may not generalize to other areas of second language research. 