What this study was about and why it is important Culture has always been a critical subject to teach in language classrooms, and English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teachers have always been trying to apply different methods to teach it to their language learners. Previous research mostly tried to emphasize the importance of teaching culture. Therefore, the number of studies which have tried to explore different culture teaching techniques are limited. This study investigated the correspondence between teachers’ perceptions about different ways of teaching culture and their actual decisions in their classrooms. In addition, the reasons for differences between their reported and enacted teaching techniques were explored. To do so, two classes of 10 EFL teachers were observed, and they were also interviewed before and after each observation. The culture teaching techniques that were mentioned in this study were contrast, authentic material, group work, codeswitching, and role play. The observations showed that there is a difference between what the teachers said about culture teaching and what they did. The reasons for this difference mentioned by the teachers were institutional policies, time constraints, learners’ religious beliefs, disinterest in the target culture, low language proficiency, as well as teachers’ subjective assessment of the local culture. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 10 EFL teachers in Iran, including 7 females and 3 males, aged between 21 and 38. They had different university degrees from BA to PhD. They were teaching different levels from elementary to upper intermediate at the time of study. Their teaching experience ranged between 1 and 16 years. 
● First, the teachers were interviewed in their first language to examine their ideas about teaching culture and different methods of presenting culture in the classroom. Five elements – namely agent, medium, interaction, modality, pedagogical objective, and cultural orientation – were extracted from the first interviews to describe teachers’ perceptions of suitable culture teaching techniques. 
● Two classes of each teacher were observed to find the extent of agreement between their stated beliefs and actual decisions while teaching culture. 
● After each observation, the teachers were interviewed for the second time to examine the reasons for existing discrepancies between their stated beliefs and actual teaching in the classrooms. The interviews, which took 20 minutes on average, were audio recorded and transcribed verbatim. 
What the researchers found
 
● The teaching methods were contrast, authentic material, group work, using the first language, and role play. 
● 23% of the observation was devoted to teaching culture. Some discrepancies between teachers’ perceptions and actual teaching were noted by the researchers. For example, in the pre-lesson interviews, all the teachers claimed they would treat the home and target cultures as equal. Conversely, it was revealed in the observations that eight of them promoted the culture of English-speaking countries at the expense of the home culture. 
● The teachers’ reasons for the discrepancies were institutional policies, time constraints, learners’ religious beliefs, disinterest in the target culture, low language proficiency, as well as teachers’ subjective assessment of local culture. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that about two-third of the observed techniques were aligned with teachers’ self-reported techniques. The inconsistencies were justified by institution-, learner-, and teacher-related factors. 
● According to this study, in order to increase the similarity between teachers’ beliefs and actual teaching, institutional administrators should give teachers more freedom to choose different techniques while teaching culture. 
● However, since the data is gathered from a small group of teachers, care must be taken in generalizing the findings. 
● Data should also be collected from a group other than teachers, like institutional administrators and teacher educators so that the interviews are not face threatening anymore to the teachers.  