
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Reclaiming Indigenous languages by teaching them in classrooms has yielded mixed results. This study leaves the desks, textbooks, and vocabulary apps behind to investigate Ojibwe language use when young bilingual speakers are sent on walks in the woods. It fills an important gap in existing research concerning the role of ‘materials’ in language learning by examining the role of the natural world as a resource for learning in an Indigenous language context. Indigenous perspectives on relationality underpin an analysis that looks closely at the inter-related nature of human and more-than-human elements in the woods. The study illustrates how Ojibwe speakers learn and use language in relation with one another and with the land. More than a resource, the land is shown to be a dynamic, living part of collective sense-making. 
What the researchers did
 
● Small groups of bilingual Ojibwe youth (ages 9-12) and first speaker Elders were invited to go on short (i.e., approximately 15-minutes) walks in the woods together. 
● Each participant was outfitted with a microphone and point-of-view camera to capture their verbal and non-verbal communication and were instructed to talk about whatever they wanted, however they wanted to. 
● Video and audio data were then transcribed, translated, and divided into episodes based on the various topics of interest (i.e., attentional frames) that were observed. 
● The transcripts included human participant turn-taking and ascribed turns to the land as well. 
● The videos and transcripts were visited and re-visited many times over, as researchers focused on episodes of bilingual youth reading land, analyzing how language was coordinated with gesture, gaze, and other sensory engagements with the environment. 
What the researchers found
 
● Findings show several different ways that the land’s materiality participates in shaping communication and learning. 
● When youth request names for natural materials in context and in the language, they rely on their knowledge of the natural world and on physical engagement with the immediate context to support language learning that generates more than a one-word label/name. 
● Learning with land can incorporate language and understandings of expanded time scales beyond the present moment, as earlier and later states of nature are relevant to understanding its current state. 
● The learning that happens on and with land resembles informal intergenerational learning patterns of observation and subsequent collaboration. Land is treated as a part of this collective effort and language is embodied. 
Things to consider
 
● The participants in our study demonstrate how language and land are co-embedded, whereas knowledge about land can be found in language and knowledge about language can be re-discovered by inquiring with land. 
● Intergenerational interactions on and with land can restore human and more-than-human relationships as well as Indigenous ways of knowing and teaching that are more focused on exploration than on mastery. 
● An Indigenous perspective on learning centralizes relationships and sees knowledge as distributed and as something that emerges from relations. This stands in contrast with a Western/colonial perspective that views learning as an individual cognitive process. How might these different perspectives shape the teaching of language? What is significant about the learning objectives in language teaching for reclamation? 
● More research is needed to improving our understanding of the relationships among humans, language, and place; as well as the kinds of pedagogies that may strengthen these relations. 