
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examined how a specific type of multilinguals —bi-dialectal speakers of two similar dialects of the same language—comprehend irony in their second, nonnative language. Irony—cases of language use where the speaker often indirectly communicates the opposite from what they actually said, with the intention to criticize to some degree their interlocutor—is very common in everyday communication; for example, in conversations between friends, in television shows, and in the social media. Thus, it is important to understand how multilinguals interpret irony to inform theories of irony comprehension, in general, and of multilingual communicative development and functioning, in particular. This would also help language teachers who work with individuals learning a second language at advanced levels (hence, are close to obtaining multilingual proficiency) appreciate what aspects of irony comprehension should be the focus of instruction and how these should be effectively taught. Participants watched short conversations between two actors and had to select one of two objects, based on their interpretation of the second actor’s reply to a question. The study found that increased, general experience with the second language in everyday life and better memory skills resulted in faster irony comprehension in the second language. Moreover, it showed that irony interpretation can proceed as fast as the comprehension of direct, literal language.    
What the researchers did
 
● Irony was tested with 36 short videos that included conversations in Standard Modern Greek between two professional actors about two objects. One actor asked a question and the second provided a reply that was either literal (24 sentences) or ironic (12 sentences). Irony was indexed by different (combinations of) cues (e.g., ironic intonation and facial expression) for each sentence, while literal statements were uttered with comparable non-ironic cues (e.g., enthusiastic intonation and facial expression). 
● Experiment 1 included 32 native speakers of Standard Modern Greek (aged 22-64). Participants rated the intonation and facial expression of all sentences on a scale from 1 (very sincere) to 7 (very ironic) to validate the ironic sentences (with a distinctive ironic intonation and facial expression) were perceived as intended. 
● Experiment 2 had 36 bidialectal speakers of Cypriot Greek and Standard Modern Greek, aged 18-32 years. Speakers reported excellent (34 participants) or adequate proficiency in Standard Modern Greek (their second language). Participants were given a computerized test with the videos. They had to select, as fast and accurately as possible, one object based on their interpretation of the second actor’s answer. Participants were also given a language use questionnaire, a vocabulary proficiency test in Standard Modern Greek and four non-verbal cognitive tasks measuring aspects of attention and memory.  
What the researchers found
 
● Experiment 1 showed that ironic markers (intonation and facial expression) were perceived as such by native speakers and were distinguished by other comparable nonironic cues that accompanied the literal statements. 
● Experiment 2 revealed that increased second language experience across a range of activities of daily life (as measured by the questionnaire) and better memory skills were associated with faster irony comprehension in the second language. It further showed that irony was understood as fast as literal meanings, at least in some cases. 
Things to consider
 
● Increased bidialectalism has a positive effect on the speed of comprehending irony in a second language, with overall experience with a second language in everyday life being the crucial factor. 
● Memory skills also affected the speed of irony comprehension, possibly because of the need to consider various types of information to successfully understand irony (e.g., knowledge about the speaker, non-verbal cues). 
● Finally, the results of this study support theories of irony comprehension which suggest that irony can be understood directly, without any delay relevant to the comprehension of literal meanings. 
● More research is needed to find out how multilinguals’ irony comprehension skills in the second language directly compare to native speakers. Future studies should also examine the effect of second language experience on irony using both quantitative (e.g., questionnaires) and qualitative (e.g., interviews, diaries) measures to obtain a more fine-grained picture about how and which aspects of multilingual experience affect irony comprehension. 