
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many classroom-based language researchers conduct experiments to investigate which methods of teaching or studying are the most effective for learning vocabulary in a second language. However, different types of experiments require different amounts of participants for the results to be optimal. If vocabulary researchers recruit too few participants, recommendations based upon their findings might not bear fruit in language classrooms. Thus, it is important for vocabulary researchers to know how many participants they should recruit. In the present study, a collection of 81 published classroom-based vocabulary studies was analyzed. The results of this analysis were used to determine how many participants are required for the experimental designs that vocabulary researchers show preference for. The findings indicated that classroom-based vocabulary researchers require more participants than they currently recruit for their experiments. Three potential solutions to this problem were presented for vocabulary researchers to consider. 
What the researchers did
 
● A set of 81 studies published by classroom-based second language vocabulary acquisition researchers was collected. 
● The 81 studies were analyzed to determine whether the different types of experimental designs chosen by vocabulary researchers affected the results of their experiments. 
● The size of the effects, or effect sizes, of each of the type of vocabulary teaching method in each of the 81 studies were calculated and compared. 
● The effect sizes were used to calculate how many participants should ideally be recruited for the experimental designs used by vocabulary researchers. 
What the researchers found
 
● The various types of experimental designs employed by classroom-based vocabulary researchers resulted in different effect sizes. 
● The experimental designs and statistical analyses that vocabulary researchers preferred to use required more participants than they generally recruited. 
● The number of required participants for the various experimental designs utilized by vocabulary researchers varied from 95 to almost 500. 
Things to consider
 
● The study showed that classroom-based vocabulary researchers require more participants than they currently recruit for their experiments. Before conducting research, vocabulary researchers should plan how many participants they need for their studies using the methods employed in the present study, or similar methods. 
● One solution offered to address the problem of small participant numbers was collaboration with researchers from other institutions. 
● Vocabulary researchers were also advised to consider different types of statistical analyses than those that they currently use. Although the alternative analyses suggested were more complex than those currently used, these analyses could potentially help solve the problems caused by recruiting too few participants. 
● The results of the present study are specific to second-language vocabulary research and may or may not generalize to other areas of second-language research. 