
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The researchers explored experiences of complementary schools considering Scotland’s 1+2 Language Strategy (2012). The strategy pushes for education in two additional languages, and yet, the maintenance of community (immigrant) languages still often falls on complementary schools (i.e., schools outside of mainstream education). Several methods were used to understand complementary schools’ experiences. The authors identified a need to acknowledge complementary schools in the Strategy and to develop mainstream and complementary school links for mutual benefit.  
What the researchers did
 
● The 1 + 2 Strategy drew on the EU aim: to master a mother tongue and 2 more languages – hence ‘1 + 2’. 
● 1 + 2 does not instruct Primary Schools which language to teach as a second (L2) or third language (L3). However, the chosen L2 must be a language which can continue from primary to secondary school, therefore discounting most community languages. There are no restrictions for the L3. The authors argued these discourses lead to the favouring of Western European languages in education due to their perceived economic benefits. Yet, Scotland is diverse, with children of many linguistic backgrounds (e.g., Arabic, Urdu, Chinese, Punjab, Polish and Romanian). 
● In this context, complementary schools have gained traction. These schools aim to protect heritage languages (of which there is little/no provision in mainstream education). The authors focused on these complementary schools. 
● 4 data collection methods were used: the authors ran a day bringing together education stakeholders; complementary schools were then identified online, which mapped 62 schools providing education for 18 heritage languages. A survey was distributed to these: the first section requested general school details; the second, pupil information, e.g., ages, range of languages, class size, and organisation; the third, how the school supported the 1 + 2 strategy; and finally, types of language assessment used. 21 out of 62 schools responded. Finally, surveys were followed-up by interviewing respondents. All data from the-above methods was collated and analysed thematically. 
What the researchers found
 
● There was a diversity of languages and provision offered by schools. Schools varied in size, and served different communities’ needs, e.g., 5 Chinese schools in Edinburgh each taught different combinations of Chinese languages. Some schools organised classes around different varieties of a language. Learners were of many backgrounds, teachers having to be flexible vis-à-vis learner needs. This sometimes raised challenges. 
● Schools signalled differing awareness/interest about the 1 + 2 strategy. Some instead followed the policy of the country of the language taught. 16 schools had not been contacted by the Local Authority about 1 + 2, nor did they know who to approach. 3 out of 5 schools who met the Local Authority found these meetings infrequent/unproductive. 
● 19 of 21 schools did not have links with mainstream schools but said they were keen to have these. Schools with links noted their effectiveness. It was argued the success of these depends on the goodwill of the mainstream school. 
Things to consider
 
● Complementary schools’ potential in fulfilling the 1 + 2 Strategy’s aims is not being fully realised; there is a need to build on the 1 + 2 Strategy to develop links with, and acknowledge, grassroots actors. 
● Many languages are not catered for in mainstream schooling; mainstream schools could link with complementary schools in this provision. Recruiting peripatetic teachers could be a step towards combatting the lack of teachers for community languages in mainstream school teaching, as could online resource-sharing. 