
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Language and identity are proved to be tightly related. For some, learning through mother tongue in school has been considered as an obstacle for minority students to engage in national identity construction. For others, learning through Mandarin is a menace for the maintenance of minority’s ethnic identity. These widely speculated assumptions have led minority parents and students into serious dilemma in their school choice. To study this dilemma, the present article focused on the ways that school settings (with or without minority bilingual education) affect Chinese Yi minority students in pursuit of better educational and occupational opportunities and their emotional attachments to the mother tongue and the Chinese national language of Mandarin. The quantitative study allowed us to showcase the patterned relationship between school settings and minority students’ social-cultural attachments. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study was based on students-reported questionnaires collected from the 9th grade (age 14-15) students in ten schools in Liangshan Yi autonomous prefecture. We have included four types of public schools currently existing in Liangshan, namely Chinese-only schools located in urban and rural areas, and two models of bilingual schools. We distributed the questionnaire in the classroom without the presence of teachers; the respondents of this survey were then randomly selected within the classroom. The same respondents were asked to do short tests in Mandarin and mathematics. We have consulted teachers to design these level adapted tests. 
● Liangshan is situated in South-Western China with the most important concentration of Yi minority people. In 2014, 51.4 % of the population in Liangshan were Yi minority who were speakers of their mother tongue. Yi literacy is taught in two models of bilingual schools. In model 1 schools, established in the 1980s, the teaching language is officially Yi and Mandarin is a subject. In model 2 schools, established at the end of 1970s, Mandarin is the teaching language and Yi literacy is a subject. 
What the researchers found
 
● Yi minority’s family economic circumstances have impacts on their school choice. 
● Fathers with higher educational level prefer to send children to Chinese-only schools where the teaching language is Mandarin, or to model 2 bilingual schools. 
● Yi students’ school performance is tightly related to school settings. School settings can affect students’ educational and occupational expectations. 
● Yi students experience an increasing attachment to the national language of Mandarin for better educational and occupational opportunities. 
● Yi students following bilingual education have higher emotional attachment to their mother tongue. 
Things to consider
 
● It seems that Model 2 bilingual education is efficient in ameliorating Yi students’ school performance and in maintaining their emotional attachment to ethnic language. 
● The amount of Yi students in rural Chinese-only schools is increasing, probably in pursuit of better educational opportunities. Currently, the low school quality in rural areas seemed to trap this group of students. The investment of better educational resources in these schools is needed to promote educational quality. 
● The political support on Model 1 bilingual education has increased its attractiveness, but effective measures are needed to ameliorate Yi students’ performance on Mandarin. 
● This study provides insights on how the teaching language at school can affect students’ attachment to languages, especially when there is an unequal power relationship between these languages. 