
What this research was about and why it is important 
?  Because most real-life foreign language speech is naturally unpredictable, spontaneous speech should be practiced in the foreign language classroom. Teacher educators should provide student teachers with suitable approaches for spontaneous speech practice in foreign languages. This study used activities and techniques used in improvisation in drama. The aim of the study was to explore how student teachers experienced improvising in English using these techniques. The researcher also asked how relevant the student teachers thought the experience was. Improvisation activities turned out to enable spontaneous speech practice very well. The majority of the student teachers enjoyed improvising in English which made them take more language risks, but for some reluctant speakers it was still a challenge to feel comfortable while speaking spontaneously. What the researcher did: 
● The researcher taught oral skills through improvisation activities in English classrooms in a teacher education program. 
● Forty-one student teachers participated in three sessions using improvisation activities about storytelling, conversations, and status expressions. Each session was more challenging in language and creativity than the previous one. 
● The student teachers wrote a text about how they experienced these activities. They specifically wrote about how they thought improvisation activities worked as an approach for spontaneous speech practice. 
● Six of the student teachers, describing themselves as reluctant speakers, were also interviewed. What the researcher found: 
● Most student teachers (88%) considered the approach relevant for spontaneous speech practice. 
● Most student teachers (78%) thought this approach increased their English as a Foreign Language (EFL) speaking confidence. 
● The student teachers had to listen very closely to each other to tell a story together or play a scene. Listening is an important part of classroom speech practice. 
● Four reluctant speakers managed to relax enough to enjoy themselves while speaking and had a clear sense of achievement beyond their expectations, two student teachers were still too uncomfortable. 
● According to most student teachers, the improvisation activities were enjoyable which made them relax and take more language risks. This was coined as the spontaneous speech mindset. 
Things to consider
 
● Creating an atmosphere of safety is vital for both improvisation and foreign language learning. Student teachers pointed at safety and enjoyment as essential conditions for their positive experience. 
● Based on this study, improvisation activities were a relevant contribution to the student teachers’ toolkit. 
● The study relied on the combined knowledge as an improviser and an EFL teacher educator, which is not available to all teacher educators. 
● It would be interesting to examine how non-improvisers can implement these improvisation activities too. 