
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Indonesia’s socio-educational situation presents local English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teachers with unique challenges and opportunities with respect to the lived experience of multilingualism and cultural diversity. They are required to inculcate in their students religious, moral, and cultural values rooted in State ideology Pancasila. On the other, many view English as inseparable from ‘western’ values, which are sometimes seen to be inconsistent with their own cultural and religious values. Evidence suggests that despite Indonesia’s hegemonic language and education policies, the teachers displayed agency in addressing the complexities of culture and interculturality, students’ learning needs and exigencies, and contextual constraints. 
What the researchers did
 
● Five teachers participated in this study. They worked in general, vocational, and Islamic high schools located in East Java, Indonesia. At the time of data collection, their teaching experience ranged from 12 to 24 years. 
● Data collection for the study lasted for 10 weeks. Primary data consisted of classroom observations and field notes, stimulated-recall (video-prompted) interviews, in-depth interviews with the teachers, and written narrative frames (story template) to be completed by the teachers. Secondary data comprised policy and curriculum documents and a student focus-group interview, which involved seven Grade 12 students from the three schools. The documents analysed included national language policy documents, school curricula, and written lesson plans. 
● Principles for intercultural communicative language teaching were used as a theoretical lens to make sense of the data. These principles emphasize the need to respond to sociolinguistic diversity within and outside the language classroom and to embrace the cultural meanings and identities of teachers and learners. 
What the researchers found
 
● National policies on language, education, and particularly character education, influenced the teachers’ conceptions and representations of language-and-culture. In turn, these beliefs and attitudes informed how they addressed culture and interculturality in the EFL classrooms. 
● The teachers acknowledged the language-culture nexus and the influence of cultural values in the use of linguistic forms. Despite this awareness, there was little evidence in the classroom observation data of the teachers explicitly calling attention to and comparing sociolinguistic features of English and local languages. 
● The teachers were generally constrained by the national language and educational policy. Yet, they often drew on the variety of social, linguistic, and educational factors present in the immediate and wider cultural, economic, political and religious context in which their schools were situated. 
Things to consider
 
● The teachers’ understandings and classroom representations of culture and interculturality were closely intertwined with the State’s policies and underlying ideology. In Indonesia’s policy documents, however, language and culture tend to be viewed as fixed, static entities tied to separate geographical blocks and monolithic values. This ideology is potentially incompatible with an intercultural approach in which teachers have a responsibility to counter cultural or national stereotyping and to avoid positioning nations as equivalent to cultures.
● While articulating views on how culture should be addressed in the classroom, the teachers played limited roles as intercultural mediators who engage learners in deliberate and explicit discussion of culture. From an intercultural perspective, teachers need to guide learners to develop culture learning skills, including awareness of the nature of cultural differences and the ability to reflect on their experience of culture and especially of culture-in-language. 
● The teachers prioritized materials that were not just linguistically appropriate but were culturally acceptable to students and consistent with local beliefs. They localized their EFL instruction and adopted culturally appropriate pedagogy. This is an important step towards offering intercultural learning opportunities, although one that needed to be enriched by more explicit, guided opportunities to make comparisons and connections between cultures. 