
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In many educational settings, the responsibility of preparing the next generations of English teachers falls on the shoulder of university-based language teacher educators in higher education. While these language teacher educators are expected to provide quality teacher education for pre- and in-service teachers, little is known about their own professional practice and continuing development. In this qualitative case study, we interviewed and observed two language teacher educators to understand their expertise (referring to a complex network of their knowledge, beliefs, and values) as well as its development in the higher education context of Hong Kong. The findings not only revealed the multiple components of their expertise but also showed how different personal and contextual factors influenced the growth of their expertise. 
What the researchers did
 
● The two language teacher educators, Julie and Mark (pseudonyms), both native Chinese and having a PhD degree in education, were involved in preparing English teachers for local primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong. 
● Two rounds of interviews were conducted with Julie and Mark respectively to find out (1) their backgrounds, motivations, and experience as language teacher educators, (2) their expertise in preparing and developing English teachers, and (3) the internal and external sources of influence on their expertise development. 
● Julie and Mark had also been observed in their language teacher education courses or workshops for more than ten hours for an enriched understanding of their expertise in practice. 
● The first author engaged in informal communication (e.g., chats and email exchanges) with Julie and Mark to gather additional information about their expertise development. 
● Informed by a complexity theory perspective, a qualitative, inductive analysis was conducted to analyze the data and shed light on the participants’ expertise and its transformation. 
What the researchers found
 
● Julie’s and Mark’s expertise resembles a complex organism which entails four critical components: (1) an interactive and dialogic teaching approach informed by their knowledge generated from their own research or practical teaching context, (2) emotional stability and the appeal to emotions as an effective teaching strategy, (3) an active and reflective mindset for their own continuous learning, and (4) willingness and capacity to help other language teacher educators cultivate and develop expertise. 
● These components, which include cognitive, emotional, and social dimensions, constantly interact with one another, contributing to their emergent and adaptive expertise in language teacher education. 
● Their developing expertise is influenced by personal factors such as personal beliefs and commitment towards language teacher education as well as contextual factors such as their language teachers’ learning needs, opportunities for learning across different contexts, and their university’s requirement on their research performance. 
Things to consider
 
● Language teacher educators’ expertise is a complex system that keeps developing in their teaching and learning contexts; therefore, language teacher educators need to view themselves as reflective and agentive beings in an ongoing state of becoming an expert and make conscious effort to cultivate their own expertise through practice. 
● While language teacher educators may desire to invest full effort in developing their expertise through practice, they also need to balance their multiple roles and responsibilities pertaining to teaching, research, and community service. They may consider strategically combining their research and teaching work to develop practice-based expertise. 
● Future research and policymaking are required to understand and support language teacher teachers who are practicing at the intersection of teacher education and higher education. 