
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Placing objects ON or IN other objects is a universal human experience. At the same time, the way we talk about such placement events differs strongly across different languages. Native speakers of one group of languages provide more general descriptions, while speakers of other languages utilize more-specific descriptions. For example, English speakers use the general word ‘put’ in describing placement events (‘PUT cup on a table’; ‘PUT stone into pocket’), while German speakers utilize more specific words in describing identical events (ein Glas auf den Tisch STELLEN= ‘PUT VERTICALLY glass on table’; einen Stein in die Tasche STECKEN = ‘PUT TIGHTLY stone into pocket’). But what happens if you speak a second language that either differs from or resembles the descriptions of such events in your first language? We tested this question by studying the descriptions of object placement events produced by two groups of adult bilingual native Polish speakers, who spoke either German or Spanish as their second language; we also compared their descriptions to the ones produced by adult monolingual speakers who only spoke German, Polish or Spanish. Our results showed that the specificity of the descriptions in your first language mattered in attaining target second language patterns. Our study highlights the need to take into account differences between languages in the expression of different experiential domains as a key factor in second language learning contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited 40 bilingual adult native Polish speakers, who were intermediate second language learners of either German or Spanish (20 per group), along with 59 adult monolingual speakers, including 20 German, 19 Spanish, and 20 Polish speakers. 
● We asked speakers to write descriptions of short animations showing either support events that place objects on a surface (e.g., PUT CUP ON TABLE) or containment events that place objects into a container (e.g., PUT STONE INTO POCKET), using an online platform. 
● We categorized the written responses of each speaker as providing more-specific or more-general description of the two types of object placement events.  
● We first compared monolingual speakers to each other; we then compared each group of bilinguals to the monolinguals in the way they described the object placement events. 
What the researchers found
 
● The monolingual adult speakers differed systematically in their expression of object placement events, with some languages using more-specific and others using more-general descriptions. 
● The specificity of the object placement event expression in first language influenced attainment of target second language patterns. o Bilinguals speaking a second language that was more specific than their first language showed patterns of both first and second language when describing events in their second language. o Bilinguals speaking a second language that was more general than their first language followed the patterns of second language when describing events in their second language. o Bilinguals speaking a second language that was as specific as their first language followed the patterns of second language when describing events in their second language. 
Things to consider
 
● The study shows that learning a second language that involves a more specific system of event description than the one in first language poses greater challenges to bilinguals in mastering target second language patterns. 
● The question remains as to whether this challenge is unique to bilinguals who are not yet advanced second language learners, or alternatively applies to bilinguals at all proficiency levels. 
● The findings of this study have important implications for devising teaching strategies that can improve learning outcomes in second language learning contexts. 