
What this research was about and why it is important 
  English-medium instruction (EMI) is a fast-growing phenomenon at universities throughout the world. However, compared to studies on EMI-related professional development (PD) at European science and engineering schools, those at Asian tertiary science and engineering schools are rare. Thus, this study attempted to fill this gap by examining EMI-related PD in Korean science and engineering universities. Despite the high rate (over 70%) of EMI implementation, these universities rarely offer PD programs aimed explicitly at EMI teaching methods. Although most of the interviewed professors believed that EMI classes should continue, they showed their resistance against EMI certification due to the universities’ nature that strongly emphasizes faculty’s research output, not teaching. This study recommends amending the current university policy that disregards the importance of and need to enhance the quality of education and start the process of identifying what they actually need to improve their EMI capability and provide precise services to satisfy such needs.  
What the researchers did
 
● This study investigated EMI at three Korean higher-education institutions specialized in science and technology, which have taken the lead in EMI among Korean universities by offering the highest percentages of EMI classes. 
● The web pages of the Center for Teaching and Learning at each school and pertinent policy documents were analyzed in order to examine the current state of EMI-related PD programs. 
● A 32-question survey was administered to investigate professors’ perceptions of EMI-related PD programs, and 117 professors responded. 
● Follow-up email and Zoom interviews were conducted. 
What the researchers found
 
● The universities have rarely provided PD programs specifically aimed at EMI teaching methods. 
● None of the universities provided courses or programs to improve professors’ English language proficiency even though EMI classes are taught mostly by content professors who are native Korean speakers. 
● The majority of the respondents were confident about their ability in EMI. Their confidence showed correlations with the language of instruction in their final-degree program and their years of EMI experience. 
● Even though most of them thought that the language used in EMI classes was different from that used in conferences, almost half of them did not believe that the teaching methodology involved in EMI was different from that used in the classroom where students’ first language was used. 
● Only a few respondents received pre-service EMI training, usually at an American institution as graduate students, and even fewer professors attended in-service EMI training. 
● Many respondents showed negative attitudes toward EMI certification because they did not see the need to participate in such programs when evaluations of their performance centered on research output due to working at a highly competitive research-focused university. 
● Nevertheless, the majority of the respondents preferred an EMI PD program with both aspects of English language proficiency and teaching skills rather than one aspect. Most of the interviewees argued for the need for consistent EMI-related faculty support such as content-related teaching resources and language-related programs.  
Things to consider
 
● This study has examined the state of EMI-related PD at Korean science and engineering universities and professors’ perceptions of it. There may be an argument that the results apply only to those in similarly competitive, research-focused educational environments. 