
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Translanguaging refers to multilinguals’ flexible and fluid use of their languages and other resources to communicate and make sense of the world. Translanguaging pedagogy is gaining widespread recognition as an approach that recognizes and builds on multilingual students’ diverse communicative resources. Research on translanguaging pedagogy has centered on classroom language practices, while studies on the design and enactment of translanguaged instruction are limited. In this pilot intervention study, we designed a set of translanguaged literacy lessons and examined learners’ engagement with the content taught during these lessons. This study’s findings provide evidence of the potential of translanguaged instruction for stimulating learners to reflect about language, engage with the language content taught, and position themselves as expert linguists. 
What the researchers did
 
● The translanguaged lessons designed for this study were based on an English multi-component reading curriculum focused on text-based language instruction in three dimensions: semantics, morphology and syntax. The curriculum is organized in thematic units, and each unit is comprised of lesson-cycles, which are a set of five lessons. 
● Translanguaging pedagogy was infused into two lesson-cycles by: using of bilingual texts; promoting flexible language use; and providing side by side instruction in Spanish and English. 
● The study participants were 5 Spanish – English third-grade (age 8-9) bilingual learners with varied language and literacy proficiencies in both languages. 
● The discourse and interactions during the morphology and syntax instruction components of the lesson-cycles were examined to understand how learners engaged with the language structures taught, and how translanguaging manifested in their talk about language. 
What the researchers found
 Translanguaging stimulated learners to examine and discuss target language structures. The following table presents how learners used translanguaging to make sense of the linguistic constructs taught. Learners used translanguaging to focus attention on target morphemes and connect morphemes in one language with their counterpart in the other language. ... to notice and analyze differences between English and Spanish morphemes/syntax. Example “Aimless. Meta, Sin meta. Mira cada vez que dice less es como sin.”(“Aimless. Aim. Without aim. Look every time it says less is like sin). (Sin is “without” in Spanish). Referring to a slide with botella plástica and plastic bottle written on it: “Dan la vuelta, porque aquí dice plastic y aquí plástica.” (“They are the other way around, because here it says plastic and here plástica.”) Interpreting a sentence in English with the noun placed before the adjective: “The sentence makes more sense in Spanish because you know the words are like backwards.” ... use prior linguistic knowledge to consider alternative ways of interpreting grammatical correctness. 
Things to consider
 While the focus on specific language lessons made for a constrained analysis, this study’s findings contribute three main takeaways for how translanguaged instruction may promote the understanding of language: 
● Moving beyond vocabulary: The interactional evidence in this study suggested that translanguaged instruction may be particularly robust for teaching morphology and syntax since it supports students’ critical and creative engagement with these linguistic constructs. 
● Fluid language practices stimulate learners’ agency: Interactions during these lessons evidenced that expertise was distributed between the teacher and the learners suggesting that translanguaging pedagogy encourages students to take risks and share their linguistic knowledge. 
● Linguistic analysis and translanguaging are complementary: the data contributed evidence suggesting that students’ understanding of language was expanded because they were stimulated to think between and beyond languages. 