
What this research was about and why it is important 
  For novice teachers (NTs), it is often challenging to quickly develop skills and knowledge they must have at the beginning of their careers, especially in classrooms with multilingual students. This study explored how Core Practices (CPs), or a limited set of high impact practices, can help NTs build humanizing, socially just classroom management practices. This participatory research provides evidence that the CP Building a Positive Learning Environment can assist NTs in positioning their multilingual learners as complex individuals with unique needs, and enacting classroom management practices that are humanizing for multilingual students. 
What the researchers did
 
● Thirteen NTs who were enrolled in, or had recently graduated from, the M. Ed. in TESOL program at a large mid-Atlantic research university participated in the study, some as co-researchers. 
● Team meetings, classroom observations, and teacher interviews were analyzed for emergent themes that could be structured into a set of CPs for teachers of multilingual students. 
● The NT research participants regularly met to collaborate and reflect extensively on their classroom practices and how to enact the CPs, as well as further refine and improve the CPs. 
What the researchers found
 Focusing on the CP Building a Positive Learning Environment, the research team found three distinct aspects which emerged across the NT participants. The table below presents examples from the data. Building a Positive Learning Environment Example Culturally and linguistically responsive pedagogy Maintaining consistent routines, high expectations, and procedures that support student learning Developing students’ social-emotional skills 
Things to consider
 Catherine and her students frequently used translanguaging, or flexible bilingual discourse in her classroom, both with academic content and class talk, to reduce instances of misunderstanding and build a culturally/linguistically supportive class community Shannon used well-established class routines to help her learners stay on task in a hectic environment; she assigned student roles with well-established expectations and used easy-to-read signs to guide the flow of class Christina framed a conversation about missing work as a learning opportunity and worked on building academic independence in her students. 
● NTs can use the elements of this CPs to build their classroom management onto a humanizing foundation, but also require the foundational support of teacher education that combines theoretical understandings of socially just education and specific guidance in developing and enacting these skills. 
● Though this research is focused on NTs from one program, there are implications for additional research and usefulness of the CPs established by the team in other content areas and programs. 