
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers tend to consider smartphones to be distractions from learning. Yet, until we know exactly how students actually use smartphones for learning in the classroom, language educators cannot make an informed decision about whether smartphones distract from or benefit language learning. This study examined students’ self-initiated smartphone use for learning in two English as a Second Language (ESL) classrooms at a U.S. university. It demonstrated how smartphones can provide students with access to diverse resources (such as music or multilingual dictionary apps) for communicating with their teachers and customizing their own learning. This study highlighted the potential role that smartphones can play in promoting learner agency. What the researcher did 
● The researcher video-recorded classroom interactions from two English as a second language (ESL) writing courses throughout a semester (6 weeks each), for a total of about 47 hours. 
● The researcher also conducted individual interviews with the instructors and students. Participants were asked to watch short video clips related to students’ smartphone use and to share their perspectives about moments when students employed smartphones for learning. 
● The researcher closely analyzed two episodes when students used smartphones for their learning. 
What the researchers found
 Based on the close classroom interactional analysis: 
● The researcher found that smartphones can provide students with access to diverse resources, like music and multilingual dictionary apps, for communicating with their teachers and customizing their learning. 
● The researcher also found that students can completely engage with multiple involvements (i.e., students manipulate smartphones while simultaneously communicating with teachers). 
● The researcher also found that use of smartphones can bring forth learner agency in selecting what is meaningful for student learning. According to interviews with the students who use their smartphones: 
● One student commented that he played a musician’s song on his smartphone to help his classmates recognize the musician, demonstrating his aware of the usefulness of smartphones use for his specific purpose and need. 
● Another student explained that he used the Google Translate app on his smartphone to search for an English word that he did not know, demonstrating his ability to choose the appropriate resource from various mobile apps for his learning. According to interviews with one of the teachers: 
● He recognized his students’ meaningful use of smartphones for learning—in this case, using a smartphone to find the English translation of a word—although the teacher regularly discouraged his students from using their smartphones in his class. 
Things to consider
 
● This study illustrated that smartphones can provide students with access to diverse resources that might facilitate learning and enhance learner agency if used appropriately. It suggests that language educators consider encouraging students to use smartphones apps like multilingual dictionaries to foster learning in the classroom. 
● This study limited its analysis to two episodes. More research is necessary to illustrate how and when students use smartphones for learning in diverse language classrooms to understand advantages and disadvantages of smartphones use in the classroom. 