
What this research was about and why it is important 
 It is important for TESOL researchers to investigate how non-native English-speaking teachers (NNEST) develop professional identities both inside and outside TESOL programs. The complex experiences from personal history, interactions with others and cultural heritage all influence the shape of NNEST’s professional identity. To capture and analyze this complexity, this study adapted an identity identification and negotiability theory by applying an existing multifaceted framework for language learning and teaching to it in order to explain how the NNEST participant’s experiences were interpreted and used in professional identity formation at the personal, interpersonal, and societal level. The theoretical model we produced guides the readers to see how the participant’s personal experiences as a non-native English user in Australia eventually prompted her to question Taiwan’s stereotypes against NNEST and how she repositioned herself to become an effective NNEST. We concluded our study by encouraging other studies on NNEST to include the social aspects of experiences in analysis with the theoretical model that this study pioneered.  
What the researchers did
 
● We synthesized a theoretical model that captures NNEST’s professional identity formation over time and across Australian and Taiwanese context 
● The first author of this study used ethnographic methods to longitudinally document and track the participant’s developments when she was in different roles: An international student in Australia, an employee in non-teaching jobs when she was on a working holiday visa, and a NNEST in Taiwan’s secondary education.  
● The researchers of this study used our synthesized model to examine the participant’s identity development at personal, inter-personal, and societal level. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participant’s idea of being a functional speaker of English was developed after the experiences she had acquired inside and outside the classroom. 
● The functional English speaker identity she newly acquired pushed her away from being a NNEST in Taiwan where native speakerism is upheld. 
● The participant appropriated the meaning of being a functional speaker of English with pedagogies, which contributed to her decision to return to Taiwanese English education. 
● The identity development we found was from engagement at the personal level, imagination at the societal level, and re-alignment at the interpersonal level of our theoretical model of multilayered nature of NNEST’s professional identity development. 
Things to consider
 
● Studies on NNEST need to move beyond TESOL programs and include the participants’ social aspects of experiences outside the programs. 
● Future studies in similar areas are encouraged to analyze NNESTs’ deficit discourse with a transdisciplinary approach where theoretical frameworks are synthesized for understanding complex issues.  