
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Open and free distance language learning courses are offered online worldwide for adult learners who seek to learn a new language (second language learners). Such courses give them the opportunity to learn on their own without a tutor at any place and time. Previous research has shown that many learners quit these courses before completing them. This has raised questions about the quality of the courses and whether they lack pedagogical strategies (specific language teaching methods) to support and engage learners. This study focused on learners of Icelandic in an online course and their views about the pedagogical strategies used in the course, and how these strategies may have affected their participation. The study also focused on those who quit the course and the reasons why they left. The study showed that pedagogical strategies were important to engage learners, and that some learners dropped out of the course for reasons unrelated to the course material itself. What the researcher did 
● Learners were 400 students in the course Icelandic Online (www.icelandiconline.com), aged between 16 and 87 (median age at 39), with different language and educational backgrounds. This was a lower-intermediate course that included hundreds of online tasks for learners to complete. 
● Learners completed a questionnaire at the end of the course. They were asked whether the pedagogical strategies used in the course motivated them to carry on with the course. Six pedagogical strategies were tested: a) organization of the learning material, b) clear learning goals, c) gradual presentation of grammar and vocabulary (items introduced and practiced step by step (scaffolding of instruction)), d) appealing reading materials, e) form-focused presentation of grammar (grammar rules explained, and grammatical forms highlighted in reading activities,) f) wide variety of exercise types. 
● The questionnaire also asked those who did not complete the course to explain why they quit the course. 
● A technical tracking system built into the course was used to measure learner progress, i.e., how they proceeded in the course and how much of the material they completed. What the researcher found 
● Most learners found all six pedagogical strategies important to engage them. 
● The tracking system showed that three of the pedagogical strategies had a positive impact on learners' progress, i.e., organization of the learning material, gradual presentation of grammar and vocabulary, and wide variety of exercise types.  
● The tracking system showed that three of these strategies did not have a positive impact on learners' progress, i.e., clear learning goals, form-focused presentation of grammar, and appealing reading materials. 
● The main reason for learners leaving the course without completing it was lack of time.  
Things to consider
 
● This study showed how the content of the online course, its organization, and the presentation of materials may play a significant role in supporting and engaging learners. More research is needed to reveal whether the present findings hold if this course were to be reproduced for other languages. 
● Some of the learners in this study quit the course because of a lack of time to study. More research is needed to find suitable redesign solutions to improve learner engagement. 
● The findings may give developers of similar courses ideas about effective techniques in encouraging student engagement. 