
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Dynamic assessment seeks to understand learners’ developing abilities by embedding mediation (i.e., assistance in the form of questions/probes) into the assessment process. The key premise of dynamic assessment is that learners may be able to do more with mediation than would be evident from their independent performance alone. We hypothesized that dynamic assessment could be particularly useful with English learners (ELs) in content classrooms, who are developing content and English language proficiency simultaneously. This study explored how embedding mediation into science assessment tasks allowed fifth-grade students at varying levels of English proficiency to demonstrate their science understanding. Overall, findings indicated that dynamic assessment provided a more complete picture of what all students, and ELs in particular, knew and could do in science. The findings of this study are timely, as a fast-growing population of ELs in U.S. K-12 education is expected to meet rigorous content standards through a language they are still developing. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was carried out in three fifth-grade (age 10-11) science classrooms in an urban school district in the northeastern US. 
● Thirty-five students agreed to participate in the study, including 13 current ELs, 12 former ELs, and 10 non-ELs. 
● Each student participated in two task-based interviews about science models they had developed in class, including one model about smell traveling as particles and another model about energy transfer in ecosystems. 
● At the beginning of each interview, students explained their model independently. Then, the researcher provided mediation by drawing flexibly from three types of mediation: o Targeted probes (e.g., “Where is the energy transferred next?” and “What are particles?”) o Open-ended probes (e.g., “What do you mean?” and “Show me what that looks like.”) o Explicitness probes (e.g., “What’s ‘it’?” and “What does ‘them’ refer to?”) 
What the researchers found
 
● Theme 1: Mediation allowed students to clarify their communication of science ideas. o Specifically, mediation allowed current ELs and former ELs to clarify their accurate science ideas that were initially communicated inexplicitly, imprecisely, and/or using everyday language. o Example: Mariana (former EL) initially used expressions such as “it’s moving” and “shares energy” to explain energy transfer. Mediation helped her clarify her ambiguous referents and elaborate on her science ideas. 
● Theme 2: Mediation revealed whether students’ language use was underpinned by science understanding. o Specifically, mediation revealed that some non-ELs who used technical science terms did not necessarily understand the underlying science ideas. o Example: Karina (non-EL) initially used the technical term “particles” to explain how smell travels, but mediation exposed her difficulty with this science idea. 
Things to consider
 
● Together, findings from the two themes suggest the limitations of assessments that rely on students’ independent (i.e., non-dynamic) performance alone. In such assessments: o teachers may judge ELs’ responses as inadequate even when these students have well-developed content understanding (i.e., underestimation of their understanding). o teachers may judge non-ELs’ responses as proficient with content regardless of whether their language is underpinned by content understanding (i.e., overestimation of their understanding). 
● By offering an assessment approach that is responsive to students’ content and language learning needs, dynamic assessment could help refute deficit views of ELs in the content areas and create more equitable opportunities for these students to demonstrate their content learning. 
● Future research is needed to understand how teachers can use dynamic assessment in their classrooms to promote ELs’ content and language learning. 