
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This article introduces the non-medievalist reader to the multilingual landscape of England 700-1400. Building on recent work exploring in particular the relationships among English, French, and Latin in medieval England, it discusses a series of 'multilingual moments' from a range of sources including letters, poems, travel writings, and French language teaching texts. Together, these examples build a picture of the complex interrelationships of languages, both spoken and written, that existed for medieval English people at home and when traveling abroad. Then as now, people can be seen using their linguistic resources for pragmatic and creative effect. We demonstrate that multilingualism is nothing new. From a methodological perspective, our work also underlines the importance of viewing linguistic attitudes in their particular intellectual and historical contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● Provided very brief summary of relevant historical changes in the period 700-1400.
● Drew from across the period on a range of sources exemplifying multilingual practices.
● Analysed evidence about relationships between Latin and European vernaculars; about translation. practices, both written and oral; and about multilingual strategies both creative and pragmatic 
● Briefly suggested possible connections with modern multilingualism studies.
What the researchers found
 
● Multilingualism in medieval England is manifest in a wide range of times, places, and contexts. 
● There is no simple, linear development from 'multilingual' to 'monolingual' England. 
● There is no simple, linear historical development in attitudes to translation. 
● Medieval English materials designed to teach French demonstrate an impressive aptitude amongst their users for that Illuminating connections might be found between medieval and contemporary multilingual practices. language. 
● Both medieval and contemporary discussions of multilingualism must be understood in their historical and intellectual contexts.  