
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study focused on morphological knowledge of affixes (prefixes and suffixes, such as un- in uninterested and -ness in greatness) which has not received much attention in the second language (L2) acquisition literature. The present study aimed to evaluate the prefix knowledge of Saudi learners of English and to examine how this type of knowledge improves with vocabulary size and L2 exposure. We assessed L2 learners' knowledge of prefixes' form and meaning using a well-established tool: the Word Part Levels Test (developed by Sasao & Webb). Results of the study can identify routes that help L2 learners expand their prefix knowledge in English. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was conducted in the Saudi EFL (English as a foreign language) context with 152 learners who took both form recognition and meaning recognition multiple-choice tests of 35 English prefixes. Items in the tests were presented out of context and included an 'I do not know' option to discourage guessing. 
● The participants took the form recognition task first and then took the meaning recognition test in the same session. Then, they took three levels of the updated Vocabulary Levels Test (developed by Webb et al.) as an estimate of their vocabulary size. Finally, they completed a questionnaire in which they indicated their average weekly exposure to English in the four skills (reading, listening, viewing, and communication). 
● The scores for each task were statistically analysed separately (form recognition and meaning recognition). We examined whether vocabulary size (VLT scores) and self-reported weekly contact with English in the various modalities could predict form recognition and meaning recognition prefix knowledge. 
What the researchers found
 
● The correct responses for the two tasks were fairly similar: around 60%. 
● However, the form and meaning tasks do not necessarily exhibit a direct match in scores. 
● Results of the statistical analysis showed that as the size of the vocabulary repertoire increased, both form recognition and meaning recognition scores increased. 
● Moreover, knowledge of prefixes was predicted by weekly average exposure to English; participants who reported more extensive exposure to English in reading and communication activities showed higher scores in both tests. 
● Finally, results showed that the most difficult prefixes based on Sasao and Webb's (2017) estimates are similarly difficult in our EFL context even for participants who have a large vocabulary size. 
Things to consider
 
● The present findings seem to suggest that L2 learners should be encouraged to maximize reading exposure and communication opportunities in order to learn more affixes. 
● However, difficult (less frequent) affixes might need to receive direct attention from teachers in language classrooms to compensate for the limited exposure. 
● Future research on factors that influence L2 morphological knowledge development can include both prefixes and suffixes and assess various aspects of affix knowledge at both the recognition and recall sides. 