
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has provided evidence that second language (L2) teacher education can prepare future L2 teachers effectively. However, only limited understanding exists of teachers moving from L2 teacher education programs into their initial years of teaching. This study makes an important contribution because it explored four teachers developing their pronunciation teaching skills during a pronunciation graduate course and then in their first few years of teaching pronunciation in the classroom. The study found that each teacher developed differently, and that several factors had a strong impact on the teachers’ practices, knowledge, and beliefs about pronunciation instruction. 
What the researchers did
 
● They looked at the development of four teachers’ beliefs, knowledge, and pronunciation practices over six years. Two teachers taught English to adult/high school immigrant students in Australia, one taught a pronunciation seminar to university students in Australia, and the fourth teacher taught at a junior high school in Japan. 
● They first followed the teachers during their graduate studies in a 13-week course pronunciation teaching. Three years later, they asked the teachers to report on their beliefs and teaching experiences, and another two years later, the researchers interviewed and observed the teachers teaching pronunciation in their classrooms. 
● They then wrote a detailed profile for each teacher to identify themes and explore the participating teachers’ developing beliefs, knowledge, and pronunciation practices over the six-year period. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learning to teach English pronunciation is a complex process, and unique to every teacher. Even though each teacher-participants’ learning process differed markedly in this study, all four teachers began their graduate studies with limited pronunciation teaching experience, and, yet, six years later, it was evident that they used some of the knowledge and skills they acquired during the pronunciation graduate course. Also evident was that the teachers’ practices were mostly teacher-centered and their students were given few opportunities to practice pronunciation during communicative activities. This finding was somewhat surprising because the teachers learned about communicative pronunciation teaching in their graduate course. 
● The focus of the teachers’ pronunciation instruction began to diverge after the completion of their graduate studies. This occurred because of the powerful influence of several interrelated factors on the teachers’ developing beliefs, knowledge, and practices: (1) collaborative activities, assignments, content, knowledge, and skills the teachers completed or acquired during their graduate pronunciation course, (2) the teachers’ personal and professional backgrounds, interests, and passion for teaching, (3) their linguistic awareness and knowledge of the complexity and ambiguity of the English sound system, and (4) the context (i.e. environment) in which the teachers were working. Notably, because of contextual factors, such as time constraints, required textbook use, and collaboration with colleagues, the teachers adjusted their pronunciation instruction to meet their learners’ (perceived) pronunciation needs. Making this adjustment was something the teachers learned about in their graduate course. 
Things to consider
 
● Learning to teach English pronunciation is a complex and teacher-specific process; one that is shaped by several factors, including the context in which teachers are working. 
● Student teachers in L2 teacher education programs should learn more specifically about navigating contextual factors in future teaching environments (factor 4). This should be done in combination with and in consideration of student teachers’ personal and linguistic backgrounds and interests, knowledge/skills, assessment tasks, classroom activities, and subject-specific readings/literature (factors 1-3). 
● To encourage discussion and reflection among student teachers, teacher educators could provide personal stories to illustrate how they have navigated contextual factors when teaching. Sharing such stories may facilitate student teachers’ transition from their graduate studies into their teaching careers. 
● Only four teachers participated in this study and therefore more research is needed to better understand the process of learning to teach English pronunciation in different countries. Reproducing this study in a different country may lead to other recommendations that could be used to improve the preparation of pronunciation teachers further. 