
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In recent decades, with the growing importance of oral proficiency in second- and foreign-language learning situations, willingness to communicate in a second/foreign language (L2 WTC) has been receiving more attention. This study used a statistical technique called structural equation modelling to look at an integrated socio-psychological L2 WTC model proposed in the China’s English as a Second Language (ESL) context. The results show that the perceived teachers’ emotional support had a direct effect on L2 WTC and an indirect effect through the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self and the acculturation to L2 culture. The study also added to our existing knowledge by showing that acculturation to L2 culture improved learners’ L2 WTC directly as well as indirectly by creating a lower level of L2 anxiety. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study investigated the structural relationships between the perceived teachers’ emotional support, the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self, the acculturation to L2 culture, L2 anxiety and willingness to communicate in an L2 (L2 WTC) among ESL freshmen in mainland China. 
● A total of 1007 college freshmen (Male: n=745; Female: n=262) from eight universities in mainland China completed six adapted versions of questionnaires concerning L2 learners’ perception of teachers’ emotional support, the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self, the acculturation to L2 culture, L2 anxiety, and L2 WTC. 
● This study takes the initiative to use a specific statistical technique (structural equation modelling) to check an integrated L2 WTC model proposed from the socio-psychological perspective in the China’s ESL context. 
What the researchers found
 
● The perceived teachers’ emotional support had a direct effect on L2 WTC and an indirect effect through the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self and the acculturation to L2 culture. 
● Although both the ideal L2 self and the ought-to L2 self were positively related to L2 WTC, the total impact from the ideal L2 self on L2 WTC was much stronger than that of the ought-to L2 self, with the ideal L2 self contributing more to L2 WTC through the acculturation to L2 culture while the ought-to L2 self exerting less impact on L2 WTC by arousing higher level of L2 anxiety. 
● Furthermore, this study added to the current literature by showing that the acculturation to L2 culture, which was predicted by the perceived teachers’ emotional support and the L2 ideal self, enhanced the learners’ L2 WTC directly and indirectly by arousing lower level of L2 anxiety. 
Things to consider
 
● Implications: The willingness to communicate in a L2 seems to be dependent on a supportive L2 classroom climate and learners’ attitudes toward L2 learning and culture. Therefore, teachers should be aware of and responsive to students’ social and emotional needs in L2 communication, prioritize their interests and ideas, and encourage their initiative and autonomy. This could help them develop a higher L2 self-concept and a vivid idealized self which will, in turn, likely boost their confidence in L2 communicative competence and diminish their anxiety. Also, teachers should provide interesting and relevant content related to L2 culture to cultivate students’ interest in L2 cultural themes and patterns, to become familiar with L2 speech norms, as well as to increase their intercultural awareness and desire for becoming assimilated into the L2 culture. 
● Limitations and suggestions for further investigation: 1) This study was cross-sectional; however, longitudinal designs might be needed to examine the possible causal directions between variables involved in the L2 WTC model. 2) To reduce the problem of common method variance, further research is needed to measure the students’ L2 WTC by combining students’ self-reports, class observations and teachers’ evaluations. 3) Gender-related variance might exist in the perceived teachers’ emotional support and the ideal language-speaking self; thus, future research may endeavor to examine gender difference in the relationship between variables involved in the current study.  