
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Conducting language learning research across multiple sites has methodological advantages that can make findings apply to a larger and greater variety of educational settings. Recent developments in research methods have created a very favorable context for the expansion of multisite studies, especially studies conducted in real language classrooms. In this article the authors used the design of their recent classroom study on peer feedback as a springboard for a discussion on how large-scale, multisite classroom research projects are both possible and beneficial in second language acquisition research.  
What the researchers did
 
● First, the authors review the expansion of meta-analyses in language learning research. Meta-analyses combine results of many studies from a particular area to arrive at global measures of, for example, “what works.” 
● The authors used findings from such meta-analyses to guide them in the development of a new large-scale study, being conducted in both Spanish and English language classrooms in the United States. This “illustrative study” served as an example of multisite research for classroom language learning. 
● The large, multisite design allowed researchers to examine the impact of important contextual variables, such as whether a class meets online via computer or in person (face to face). Including such contextual variables can make findings more useful for instructors who work in different types of educational settings. 
● Note: Since this paper was a methodological review, it focused on the development, design, and benefits of the multisite study. The actual results of the study will be presented in separate article. 
What the researchers found
 
● While designing the classroom-based multisite study, the authors found four “critical issues” for multisite research into second language acquisition. 
● These critical issues were: Obtaining funding for different sites; complying with ethical and data security requirements on different sites; standardizing the design across multiple sites; and using statistical analyses that account for participants being clustered within sites (e.g., within classes, or with teachers). 
Things to consider
 
● The researchers discussed the strategies that they used to successfully address all four critical issues in their illustrative study. 
● In addition to considerations for methods, multisite research has implications for scholarship. Over the last decade there has been an important culture shift in second language acquisition research regarding authorship; multiple coauthors are increasingly accepted and, for many projects, are expected. 
● In the case of the illustrative study, the benefits of the multisite design justified the challenges. Importantly, research findings that are generalizable to more contexts help to make research more applicable to practice. Materials (the videos used for the instruction) are publicly available on IRIS https://iris-database.org. 