
What this research was about and why it is important 
  International doctoral students generally face multiple challenges in language and culture while studying abroad. They are also expected to produce high-quality scholarly research that contributes to knowledge. How can they overcome these challenges and successfully complete their doctorate? This study drew upon the story of one international doctoral student from Asia and explored how she navigated her doctoral journey across languages and cultures. The study showed that proactivity, language and culture awareness, and building bonds with the institution and other researchers were key to success in her doctoral journey. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher recruited the participant in 2015 and constantly checked with her until shortly after her graduation in 2017. The participant came from Taiwan and was learning in a doctoral program in education at a university in the United States. 
● The researcher conducted observations, two open-ended, in-depth formal interviews, and informal conversations with the participant. The formal interviews asked the participant to tell her story of learning and living in the United States, including her challenges and coping strategies. 
● The researcher recorded the interviews with a voice recorder and transcribed them word for word. The researcher also took notes during the observations and kept research journals. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participant experienced challenges in language due to the different ways of speaking and writing between Chinese and English. These challenges negatively affected her experiences both in life and in study. 
● The participant took the initiative to improve her English proficiency by visiting the university’s writing center and receiving professional training in English pronunciation. 
● The participant experienced difficulties assimilating into the culture but later built bonds with her American research participants when she became more aware of the diversity of cultures and languages. 
● Faculty support was important in helping international doctoral students establish a sense of belonging for their professional growth. 
Things to consider
 
● The participant’s desire to sound like a native speaker showed that the concept of standard English has negatively affected an international doctoral student personally and professionally. It also showed the importance of culture and language awareness. 
● Personal experience was a key element in the professional growth of an international doctoral student. The participant’s life experiences became the subject of her doctoral research and were enriched by her doctoral research. 
● This single case study offers a venue for other researchers and educators to have an in-depth understanding of one student’s international doctoral journey. Further research is needed to bring out the stories of more international doctoral students. 