
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Pre-packaged language learning and teaching (LLT) materials often embody ideological values of the society. In South Korea, test-oriented materials, which dominate the LLT textbook market, leave little room for learners to acquire proficiencies relevant to them. Instead of asking how to revise marketed textbooks, we flipped the question: What would happen if the learners create LLT materials and design learning activities by themselves? How would they create their LLT activities by using resources in the classroom, and what could emerge from such activities? To explore these questions, the traditional pedagogical metaphor of acquisition (i.e., teachers deliver knowledge through LLT materials and students absorb it) was not appropriate. We theorized learning as distributed and emergent, meaning that learning emerges from the distributed practice of all objects and agents in the classroom. Using the metaphor of distributed practice, we found that (a) the student-made materials were not ‘things’ that deliver knowledge but affordances which could be connected to the participants’ professional knowledge, previous experiences, and other resources in the classroom; and (b) their pedagogical outcomes were nonlinear, unpredictable, and irreducible to a simple cause/effect analysis. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were two South Korean entry-level jobseekers in their mid-twenties. Realizing that test-oriented English learning was insufficient, they joined this study to develop English speaking skills with their own materials. During an 8-week program, they used the materials with other resources in the classroom. 
● One of the researchers led the program. She helped participants diagnose their current situation, design learning activities, and find additional resources and opportunities. 
● The data include the participants’ learning materials, interviews, narratives, video-recordings of the classroom interactions, and field notes. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participants’ materials were diverse, ranging from résumés in English to PowerPoint slides in Korean. The participants connected them with other resources in the classroom (e.g., laptop, web search results, their previous experience and professional knowledge, communication strategies, notes, and the researcher’s expertise in English) as they created new English-language learning activities. 
● The relations created by the materials were as important as the contents of the materials. Although some materials may not be traditionally treated as curricular, they readily connected to other classroom resources and provided the participants with opportunities to practice English. The participants’ English-language learning emerged from the synergy between all the resources. 
● Working with their own materials opened up unexpected learning possibilities, such as integrating disjointed pieces of test-oriented knowledge and exploring better options beyond seeking a job in their home country. 
● Using their own materials was not a solution for all test-oriented learning problems; rather, the materials provided opportunities for the participants to explore different possibilities than following the curriculum given by textbooks. 
Things to consider
 
● Any artifact, including those that are not originally produced for LLT purposes, can be used as LLT materials, as long as they can be connected to other resources in the classroom. 
● When choosing LLT materials, asking “what possible relations could be created by using these materials?” would be more important than focusing solely on the content of the materials. 
● Students may choose materials directly linked to their goals and connect them with other resources to develop L2 communication skills flexibly. 
● A teacher’s job is to strategically place the learners in a rich network of resources that help them create meaningful relations, and not delivering knowledge unidirectionally. 
● More research is needed to find out the effects of using the learners’ materials in the long-term and in institutionalized learning settings. 