
What this research was about and why it is important 
 There are many scholars working on individuals who learn and use more than one language. Some of them think it is very important to distinguish between research on people using two (but not more) languages and other speakers using three or more languages. Others do not think that this is a very important distinction. These different sub-fields of inquiry then come up with different theories and claims depending on the scholars’ views. Despite the differences, all these theories rely on the possibility of counting languages used by individuals. A second group of approaches, more recently emerging in the field, questions this assumption and advocates a view on the use of several languages that gets rid of language categories and counts of languages. One of the inspirations for this radical approach is that linguists actually have great difficulties defining what exactly should count as a language or a dialect. Because the use of language in people is so variable, depending on regions, contexts, the biography of the speakers, etc., drawing lines between language or dialect categories is difficult. This great variability in theories and ways of seeing the linguistic repertoire of speakers makes the discussions among the scholars difficult, and this article tries to find a view on the language repertoire of speakers that is consistent with the evidence from research and with which a maximum of scholars could agree. 
What the researchers did
 
● The author analyses some of the most commonly used theories of bilingualism and multilingualism. He then shows how the variability of things that can fall into a category such as bilingualism might lead to problems regarding general statements that researchers want to make about that category. 
● As an example, scholars have tested the effects of knowing two languages on learning a third one. Some found positive effects for learning, whereas others did not find such effects. Since such diverging results are common, something might be wrong with the fundamental categories such as bilinguals or multilinguals. 
What the researchers found
 
● The author shows how the different views on mastering several languages all have certain advantages, but also disadvantages. He then proposes a view on such language repertoires that is inspired by how people in general categorize the natural and social world. In multilingualism, just as in the category of birds, there are individuals who are more typical than others are. 
● For example, a person who is able to read and write skillfully in English, Spanish, and French would be such an individual. On the other hand, a person who can only read and write English, but can read French and understand some Spanish, might be a less prototypical multilingual – but still a multilingual. 
● The proposed view also allows for cases in which membership in the category remains unclear. 
Things to consider
 
● Mastering several languages, seen with the re-engineered concept, is at the same time ordinary in that almost everybody in some sense does it – if we account for dialects and styles. It is also extraordinary in the sense that some people, indeed, have many more languages (in the common language sense) at their disposal than others. 