
What this research was about and why it is important 
 English language teachers can use their language experiences and their identities in their teaching to facilitate critical conversations about language. This creates opportunities for learning in ways that reflect the realities of language users, rather than fostering unrealistic, detached, and abstract understandings of language and identity. Multiple studies have demonstrated that multilingual teachers can use their experiences to facilitate their pedagogies. In addition, this knowledge can contribute to challenging colonial views of language and learning, including the binary of native versus non-native speakers and marginalizing gender ideologies and practices. This qualitative study contributes to understanding English teachers’ identity construction outside of oppressive ideologies of language and gender. It focuses on studying four teachers’ identity construction in the contexts of teachers’ gendered experiences across languages and nation states. Results show that teachers had a strong gendered consciousness and complex language experiences, visible in their narrative writing. Data revealed that teachers’ identities involved tensions at three levels: macro (ideologies and discourses in different contexts), meso (practices with other individuals, institutions, technologies, etc.), micro (their own language choices). Their gender and language identities were defined by the relationships between factors at these three levels and their agency in making decisions. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher collected data from 4 teachers who expressed a strong gender identity while taking a teacher education course about transnationalism. 
● The researcher collected course materials and conducted semi-structured interviews. For the analysis, she used an inductive approach and critical multimodal discourse analysis. Identity maps were created to account for all the factors shaping teachers’ gender and language identities. 
● The researcher conducted multiple rounds of member-checking to reflect the participants’ experiences and identities in their own terms. 
What the researchers found
 
● The four participants engaged in various types of narrative writing, using transnational perspectives of language beyond the monolingual view and showing awareness of the gender discourses shaping their identities. 
● Besides narrative writing, the participants’ identities are constructed through networks of macro structures (political and economic infrastructures, religious and gender beliefs, language ideologies, and lived ecologies), human agents and institutions, and meaning-making resources. 
● Language ideologies at the macro/ideological level were deficit-based and oppressive, while the participants experienced language negotiation in their local contexts and their own language practices. 
Things to consider
 
● It is essential to understand the impact of external conditions like larger structures, local practices, and personal choices to develop teachers’ agency, critical language knowledge, and pedagogies. 
● Teacher education programs can guide teachers to develop anti-oppressive views and identities through narrative-based writing and attention to the external conditions of their experiences. 