
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Understanding students' cognitive processes during writing is a key to diagnose any difficulty during writing behaviours. This study tracked students' behaviours during a first language (L1) and second language (L2) writing activity -- responding to an argumentative prompt. The study focused on recording different types of students' behaviours: fluency of writing, pauses, and revision activities in composing L2 (English) and L1 Arabic. Arabic is diglossic, meaning that different versions of the language (e.g., high and low) are used for different purposes (e.g., writing and speaking). The study also attempted to find out whether different writing behaviours learners experienced would predict the quality of their produced written form. It also examined what the students were thinking while processing the writing task by exposing them to view their video recording screen during writing tasks and record their cognitive processes during the task. 
What the researchers did
 
● Thirty students wrote a composition responding to an argumentative prompt in their L1 (Arabic) and L2 (English). 
● They were asked to write a paragraph using keystroke logging program (Inputlog 7, Leijten & Van Waes, 2013). Their screens were also recorded using Active Presenter software. 
● Four students were invited to a stimulated recall interview where they were shown some excerpts of their writing behaviours that they had trouble with in the composition task. They were asked to verbalize what they were thinking of when they paused or deleted characters, words, or sentences. 
● Some extraneous variables were controlled such as the typing speed by administering typing tests. 
● The author analysed the students' strokes generated by the Inputlog quantitatively while their responses to a stimulated recall interview was analysed qualitatively. 
What the researchers found
 
● Results indicate that students produced more pauses over the word boundary in their mother tongue than in their L2. 
● Students paused many times between sentences in L1 and L2 composition, indicating a cognitive burden exerted on planning. 
● The results also revealed extensive revision behaviour processed by the learners reflected by considerable time spent on deletion and/or revision for L1 and L2 writing. 
● Many pauses and minimal production of words tend to be negative predictors for writing quality output. 
Things to consider
 
● Identifying writing behaviours would be a key to diagnose the students' problematic issues in L1 and L2 writing. 
● Extensive pauses and revision behaviours are indicators of the students' concerns with polishing low-cognitive level of writing such as grammar, punctuation and spelling while pauses and revision on the sentence boundary indicate that students were obsessed with a high-cognitive level. 
● Writing behaviours could be a predictor of good quality of produced final text of L1 and L2 writing. 