
What this research was about and why it is important 
 While educational leaders are increasingly more concerned about racial inequities, they may not know how to talk about these issues in ways that productively impact change in classrooms and schools. Previous research has shown that people of color who have deep understandings of systemic racism (i.e. how institutional policies and practices create and maintain racial disparities) are more likely to have the knowledge and resources for identifying, addressing, and alleviating educational injustices. In this study, the researcher closely examined how three teachers of color with a strong commitment to justice discussed issues of race and racism to promote transformational change at their school sites, discourses that she refers to as “critical race talk.” Teachers of color continuously adapted their language to accommodate a wide-range of audiences with diverse views on race, benefiting the learning of an expansive group of students, teachers, community members, and administrators. Due to institutional pressures to attend to the emotions and concerns of people who view critical race discourse as “divisive” and who deny or minimize the realities of racism, teachers of color in this study were not consistently supported with actions that prioritized the educational and humane needs of students of color and other marginalized groups. What the researcher did 
● The researcher recruited K-12 (age 4-18) teachers of color who expressed a commitment to social justice and comfort talking about issues of race and racism. All of these teachers worked in Los Angeles, California schools serving a predominantly student of color population. 
● The researcher interviewed, observed, and audio/video recorded these teachers and their daily interactions within various school settings (i.e. classrooms, staff meetings, leadership meetings, community events) 
● Examining interactions focused on issues related to race and racism, the researcher found three common themes among all of their practices. What the researcher found 
● Teachers of color advocated for the educational interests of students of color by encouraging people to face the discomforting truths and realities of white privilege and white supremacy (i.e. how institutions are designed to maintain white interests and power). 
● To appeal to a wide-range audience, teachers of color readjusted how they presented information based on how they themselves experienced race, racism, and other discriminatory factors within their local context. 
● Dependent on their context, teachers of color intentionally disengaged in unproductive conversations about racism by drawing on alternative topics that aligned with both the educational needs of students of color and the people they were talking to. 
● Despite their practices advancing collective learning and actions that foster educational opportunities for marginalized groups, teachers of color were not equitably perceived as valuable within their institutions. Specifically, the critical race talk of teachers of color who experienced multiple marginalizations in their social identities (i.e. race, gender, sexuality, class, language, nationality, disability, body, etc.) were less favorably perceived. 
Things to consider
 
● Critical race talk may offer essential insights for alleviating racial inequities in schools; however, teachers of color who engage in race discourse may not have the resources, capacities, or institutional support to fully address these issues. 
● To advance educational justice without overburdening teachers of color, educational leaders must create and maintain an institutional culture that prioritizes racially conscious speaking and listening. 
● Despite the setbacks that teachers of color in this study experienced, they were still able to negotiate contradicting work conditions to impact change in classrooms and schools. 