
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second language teachers are often concerned about whether asking learners to write collaboratively online via a video-chat versus a text-chat would create any differences in how they engage in interaction and whether this would then affect the quality of their written text. Also, teachers might wonder whether it is a good idea to pair learners who are familiar or not familiar with each other in an interaction. This study explored how learners engaged online when completing a writing task with a familiar and unfamiliar partner via video-chat and text-chat. Learners’ behaviors during their online interaction and the quality of their written texts were compared. The results showed that learners engaged more in interaction when they worked with familiar partners and when they interacted via the video-chat. The results also showed that when learners were more engaged in the interaction, they tended to produce better quality written texts. 
What the researchers did
 
● Ninety-eight adolescent Vietnamese learners of English of intermediate proficiency level were asked to collaboratively write a story based on 10 given pictures. 
● These learners first interacted to write a story with a familiar partner who was their friend and used to work with them before, and then an unfamiliar partner who they did not know and had not met prior to the interaction. 
● These learners also interacted via video-chat and then text-chat when discussing to write the story. 
● The learners’ engagement behaviors (e.g., attention to language use, discussion of the task content, mutual assistance, responses to each other’s ideas, and feelings) were compared when they interacted with a familiar vs. unfamiliar partner, and when they interacted via video- vs. text-chat. 
● The quality of their written texts was compared in terms of how accurate, complex, and long the written texts were. 
● The learners were also asked to state their opinions and preferences toward working with familiar/unfamiliar partners and interacting in the video- vs. the text-chat. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners tended to engage more in the interaction (e.g., showing higher level of attention, producing more content and ideas, providing each other with help and assistance, responding to each other’s talking turn, and reporting positive emotions) when they o o interacted with familiar partners. interacted in the video-chat. 
● A majority of the learners reported that they liked the video-chat more than the text-chat and preferred to work with a familiar than an unfamiliar partner. 
● However, a small group of learners preferred text-chat over video-chat. 
● Learners’ high level of engagement in the interaction led to high quality written texts. That is, the texts were more complex in terms of language structure and use, more accurate, and longer. 
Things to consider
 
● This study suggests that one way for teachers to promote second language learners’ online task engagement could be to pair learners who are familiar with each other. If learners are not familiar with each other, teachers might need to create warm–up or getting–to–know activities for learners, especially at the start of their academic term, a course, a lesson, and/or even a task so that they can familiarize themselves with each other. 
● Teachers may encourage learners to use video-chat more than text-chat when interacting online. However, it is important to keep in mind that text-chat can suit some learners, especially those who are shy and do not want to have their camera on during the interaction. 
● Since learners’ high engagement in interaction is more likely to result in better written texts, it is important for teachers to maintain and promote learner engagement during their interaction. 