
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Content and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) has been introduced in several countries throughout Europe (and beyond) with (among others) the aim to stimulate plurilingualism. CLIL refers to educational contexts where non-language subjects, or parts of these subjects, are taught through another language than the regular language of schooling. Initial studies had shown a positive impact of CLIL on target language acquisition, but recent research is more nuanced, finding positive outcomes in some countries but null effects in others. This is not surprising, given the considerable amount of variation in the way that CLIL is implemented throughout different countries and educational contexts. In Flanders (Northern Belgium), CLIL was officially introduced in 2014. This study is the first in this region to investigate the impact of CLIL on L2 (i.e., French) acquisition and on L1 (i.e., Dutch) proficiency. The outcomes show a positive impact of CLIL on both L2 competencies (listening and speaking) and a null effect on L1 reading proficiency. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers followed 579 beginning secondary school pupils (age 12-13) enrolled in CLIL and non-CLIL programs in Flanders, in two cohorts. One cohort was monitored for a period of two school years; the other cohort for one school year. A questionnaire was used to obtain information about the (language) background of the pupils, as well as their scholastic and language-related motivation. 
● Three language tests were conducted on multiple occasions: o o o (1) L2 French listening comprehension: 545 pupils answered multiple choice and short-answer questions about video and audio files, designed and calibrated to cover CEFR levels A1 through B2; (2) L2 French speaking: 273 pupils were tested with an adaptive series of tasks eliciting both interactive speech and monologues. The tasks were calibrated to cover CEFR levels A1 through B2; (3) L1 Dutch reading proficiency: 579 pupils completed a standardized and normed L1 Dutch reading test. 
What the researchers found
 
● A positive impact of CLIL on L2 French listening comprehension was found in both cohorts, and on L2 French speaking ability in the first cohort, that was followed over a period of two years. 
● The gap between the CLIL and non-CLIL pupils was mainly established during the first year of secondary education. 
● CLIL did not influence the L1 Dutch reading comprehension of the pupils. 
Things to consider
 
● Positive effects of CLIL on foreign language proficiency were found in spite of the fact that no more than 20% of the curriculum is taught in the target language in Flanders. This contrasts with a number of previous CLIL studies that found null effects even though a minimum of 50% of classes were taught in the target language. A possible explanation is that Flemish pupils’ initial L2 French proficiency is low and they do not have much contact with the language outside school, especially when compared to contexts in which English is the target language. 
● Pupils with more CLIL hours per week showed increased L2 proficiency. It is not clear whether this is due to more L2 content teaching or to more L2 exposure in general. Would the same positive outcomes be observed with an increasing number of hours of explicit L2 French instruction? 
● In any event, from a policy-making perspective, CLIL is interesting because it leads to higher L2 proficiency without considerably affecting the curriculum. This study also showed that teaching content classes in an L2 did not affect L1 (reading) proficiency. The impact of CLIL on content knowledge, however, was not investigated in this study. 