
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Technological advancements and neoliberal economies have increased mobility of individuals, capital, information, and material goods across geographical and digital spaces. Known as globalization, such processes have rendered our world increasingly interconnected and interdependent, with intercultural encounters becoming commonplace for many. Engendering novel patterns of language use, these changes require individuals to continue learning languages and ways of communications throughout their life. While English is often regarded as the universal language, in order to communicate effectively with people with diverse backgrounds, today’s language learners need to be prepared to flexibly adapt to and learn from their surrounding environments, rather than rely on existing norms for communicative success. This research investigated how English-knowing multilinguals make use of and expand on their repertoires of communication in a peer language tutorial among Japanese and Thai university students. Through meticulous, turn-by-turn analysis of the video-recorded interaction, the study explored the coordinated use of multilingual and nonverbal resources (e.g., gesture, facial expression, and objects) as well as the role of routinized exchanges (e.g., “repeat-after-me”). Findings demonstrated the contingent and variable nature of cooperative behaviors that were shaped not simply by a priori goals (i.e., teaching and learning Thai), but emergent orientations to the activity at hand. They also exemplified reciprocal language learning wherein the participants alternated between expert and novice roles with respect to Thai and Japanese. What the researcher did 
● As part of semester-long fieldwork at a university in Bangkok, Thailand, the researcher collected a 79-minute video recording of a peer language tutorial among three Japanese and one Thai students. 
● The researcher transcribed the recording. 
● The researcher engaged in meticulous, turn-by-turn analysis of the transcripts, supplemented with the original video footage and knowledge of the participants’ relationships and backgrounds, as well as a copy of the Thai language textbook that the participants used. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participants made coordinated use of diverse resources, including words (originating from Japanese, Thai, and English), intonation, gesture, eye gaze, and smile in negotiating emergent orientations to the activity at hand, which brought into question the narrow view of communication based the use of a single language. 
● A key enabler of the multilingual tutorial was the participants’ prior knowledge of how to participate in language lessons, as they were able to recognize and carry out routinized exchanges without explicit instructions. 
● The findings demonstrated an understanding of multilingual interactions not as a static category, but as a process of dynamic negotiation wherein the achievement of social actions took precedence over the selection of resources. 
● Language learning in the current dataset occurred reciprocally, as the participants alternated between expert and novice roles with respect to Thai and Japanese. 
Things to consider
 
● These findings suggest the importance of nurturing learners’ awareness of language learning and use as an adaptive process so as to help them continue expanding their repertoires of communication in an ongoing manner. 
● In addition to grammar and vocabulary, language teaching can give more attention to the role of routinized exchanges and nonverbal resources. 
● To complement the rigidity of classroom language learning and teaching, learners and teachers are recommended to make use of naturalistic learning opportunities, such as peer language tutorial, and reflect on and discuss how actual, real-world practices may challenge their understanding of linguistic norms. 