
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Study abroad is a popular educational experience among U.S. university students, especially non-Hispanic white students who only speak English. As such, previous research has primarily focused on how study abroad may help students learn a new language and learn about a new culture. However, what happens when students who are multilingual (speaks more than one language) and multicultural (grows up with more than one culture) study abroad? What do they bring to an abroad experience? What do they learn from it? What impact can the curriculum of an abroad program have on students’ learning? This study focused on the experiences of a Vietnamese-American student—
‘Terry’—who was multilingual (she spoke Vietnamese, academic English (English learned at school), African American English, some Spanish) and who studied abroad in Guatemala to improve her Spanish. Her abroad program incorporated classes, written reflection assignments, field trips, and volunteer work that encouraged students to immerse fully in the local community. This study shows that Terry drew on her multilingual and multicultural background to understand her abroad experiences. Meanwhile, the act of engaging in language and cultural learning abroad and reflecting on that experience helped Terry better understand and appreciate her diverse background. The study also shows how an abroad program’s assignments facilitate Terry’s reflections on her new experiences abroad.    
What the researchers did
 
● In-depth case study of a Vietnamese-American student—Terry—learning Spanish in Guatemala over a 13-week period. 
● Terry participated in a study abroad program that included education courses, Spanish language courses, field trips, and volunteer work at a local non-profit. 
● Terry was interviewed four times and her Spanish language classes were recorded.  
● Terry’s coursework (projects, journal entries, blogs), interviews, and class recordings were analyzed to understand how Terry experienced Guatemala and the impact of that experience.  
What the researchers found
 
● Terry’s rich prior experiences navigating multiple languages and cultures, alongside her abroad program’s curriculum, were what led to her having such a transformative abroad experience. 
● Through improving her Spanish, learning about Guatemalan culture, and interacting with locals, Terry better understood why language and culture was important to her, to her family, and to other people. As a result, she felt more confident and proud about her heritage, upbringing, and background. If it had not been for this study abroad program, Terry may not have come to this realization nor reaffirmed her commitment to her multilingual and multicultural background. 
● Study abroad program design and assignments—e.g., written reflections, readings, class discussions, field trips—
facilitate students’ engagement with and learning from local communities. 
Things to consider
 
● Study abroad programs should prioritize recruiting multilingual and multicultural students because students like Terry bring unique perspectives to their abroad experience and may gain a better understanding and appreciation of their own background as a result. 
● Alongside study abroad, general education programs at U.S. universities should encourage multilingualism through coursework and volunteering.  
● Reflection encourages students to make connections between coursework and their personal lives, which has a profound effect on their learning.   