
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many bilingual speakers naturally mesh and meld their languages and varieties, as if drawing from a unitary, holistic multilingual repertoire. This is known as translanguaging. How do teachers feel about using translanguaging as a pedagogical tool? This study explored this question with pre-service teachers in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 22 pre-service female teachers in a teacher preparation program in the UAE, all native speakers of Emirati Arabic (EA) and proficient in English. They did a course assignment in groups of 3 or 4. Each group had to write and illustrate a storybook for children aged 4–8 years. They were asked to imagine future students as audience, situate the stories in contemporary local settings, and strategically “mesh” and “meld” Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), English, and EA. 
● Three sources of data were analyzed: (a) two interviews with each group; (b) focus group discussion with 9 volunteers; and (c) discussion board postings to two survey prompts. 
What the researchers found
 
● These bilingual teacher trainees translanguaged in daily speaking and texting. They were able to create successful storybooks with translanguaged texts. Yet, they held unfavorable attitudes towards translanguaging and towards written bilingual and bidialectal meshing in the storybooks. 
● They preferred side-by-side bilingualism, where each language is segregated into separate domains and goals: EA in the family and for national identity, MSA in writing, and English for its global reach. 
● They feared that translanguaging would give too much space to EA, which is easier for the children, and displace MSA, the high variety that children find more difficult to learn. 
● They also saw mixing Arabic with English as a threat to Arabic identity. 
● Only a few participants thought the translanguaging in the books mirrored contemporary reality, would foster better vocabulary and pragmatic communication skills in both languages, and would be more interesting to young children. Even so, they may have shared the same negative ideologies. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers can value bilingualism and biliteracy, understood as the ability to use more than one language or variety, and at the same time resist translanguaging as teaching “bad” or “wrong” language habits to children. 
● An assignment like this is valuable in teacher education because it engages creativity and raises critical language awareness and awareness of translanguaging in the lives of bilingual children. 