
What this research was about and why it is important 
 According to recent research, boredom is one of the common emotions that students experience at school. Research has also found that boredom is associated with negative learning outcomes. What is not yet clear is why students experience boredom in the classroom. This study investigated the reasons for experiencing boredom among Thai university students who were learning English in an oral communication course for a semester. Through whole-class surveys and interviews, nine factors were identified as the reasons for boredom. These include physical fatigue, unfavorable appraisals of classroom activities, and negative behaviors of classmates. It was also found that students experienced boredom when there was a mismatch between the student (e.g., English skills, expectations) and the lesson (e.g., task requirements, design). 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 25 (Male = 16, Female = 9) second-year Thai university students (ages 20-21), who enrolled in an English oral communication as an elective course, taught by the first author, and their proficiency level was approximately CEFR B1-B2. 
● A questionnaire was administered at the end of the class four times, and students were asked to write about when and why they experienced boredom in those classes. 
● The first author held four interview sessions with five students after class and asked about their boredom experiences in those classes. 
● The data were examined to look for factors that students frequently or commonly discussed in their reports. 
What the researchers found
 
● The results showed that students experienced boredom when they: - gave unfavorable appraisals of classroom activities - perceived a mismatch between lessons (e.g., instruction, activities) and their expectations, desires, or preferences - had difficulties understanding lesson content or instructions - perceived task demands (e.g., performing a task) to be greater than their resources (e.g., ideas, English skills) 
● It was found that learners’ physical fatigue, by reducing physical and cognitive resources, could lead to the emergence of boredom. 
● It was found that negative behaviors of peers, by causing comprehension difficulties or creating a demotivating and discouraging atmosphere, could lead to the emergence of boredom. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that the experience of boredom typically involves more than one of the factors that are related to learners, teacher/lessons, or environment. This indicates that both teachers and students can use certain approaches to reduce the likelihood of experiencing boredom. 
● Teachers can take pedagogical approaches, such as matching the task difficulty to the students’ English levels, designing lessons in reference to students’ expectations and preferences, and making sure the instructions are clearly understood. 
● Students can take proactive approaches to make sure they attend classes with healthy physical states. 