
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The act of taking notes is a common activity in classroom settings and is believed to be beneficial for foreign language (FL) learning. Several studies have looked at whether writing words contributes to word learning but writing activities in these studies were carefully controlled. In real classroom settings, students may not be instructed to take notes, and if they do take notes, the students rather than instructors decide on the words, phrases, sentences, and meanings that they write. Therefore, the present study investigated the extent to which English as a foreign language (EFL) learners write about unfamiliar words in notes, and the effects of notetaking on word learning in a real classroom setting. This study also looked at the effects of first language (L1) translation, word repetition, and word length on word learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 86 Chinese university students of English as a foreign language who were between 18 to 21 years old. All of the learners had been studying English for a minimum of 10 years. 
● Learners were allowed to take notes during a lesson, but taking notes was not a compulsory behavior. All the notetaking sheets were collected immediately after the lesson regardless of whether or not learners took notes. 
● The lesson lasted 40 minutes and consisted of 26 minutes of video-taped teacher’s anecdotes and approximately 14 minutes of teacher-student interaction. Learners encountered 18 target single words such as crave, hiss, and shovel, and 10 multiword items such as small talk and long term when listening to the teacher talk. The eighteen single words were divided into two sets. The corresponding two sets had the same number of word repetitions and number of letters. Words in one set were translated briefly during the teacher talk whereas words in the other set were not. 
● To test how learners could learn and remember words, a translation test (for the single words) and a multiple-choice test (for multi-word items) were used one week before the lesson, immediately after the lesson, and one week later. 
What the researchers found
 
● More than half of the learners took notes, but relatively few unknown words were written in notes, suggesting that writing unknown words in notes when listening to teacher talk is uncommon. Most unknown words in notes were single words, and the most common two types of notetaking were FL word form, and L1 meanings of single word items together with FL word forms; a small number of multiword items were written in notes, indicating that learners are unlikely to write multiword items in notes. 
● Learners with or without writing target single words in notes improved on the translation test, but learners who wrote target single words achieved a better result for word learning than those who did not, indicating that writing unknown single words in notes contributed to word learning. 
● Providing the L1 translation of unknown words increases the chances that they will be written in notes. 
● For learning single word items, writing target words in notes was the factor with the greatest effect, followed by L1 translation and word length. This study did not find the effectiveness of word repetition on learning single words, and word repetition and word writing on learning multiword items. 
Things to consider
 
● This study suggested that notetaking may be another effective way of FL word learning, but students need to consider which words are worth writing and how to take effective notes to improve word learning. 
● The findings showing that a relatively small number of target words were written in notes suggested that it is well worth investigating different notetaking approaches (e.g., notetaking using effective notetaking format). 
● This study looked at the spontaneous behavior of taking notes, so there was a large unequal sample size, which may affect the results. It would be useful for future research to increase sample size to better generalize findings. 