
What this research was about and why it is important 
 One of the most commonly used methods to learn vocabulary in a second language is to pair the second language word and its native-language equivalent (for Japanese learners of English, e.g., DOG - 犬). In this learning method, there are two possible learning directions: second language to first language, where the word is presented first in the foreign language and then the native language (e.g., DOG → 犬), and first language to second language, where the word is presented first in the native language and then in the foreign language (e.g., 犬 → DOG). This study investigated which learning direction leads to better memory retention. The participants studied novel words in each learning direction and took vocabulary tests. The results showed that second language to first language learning was more effective for second language learners with lower proficiency, whereas first language to second language learning was more effective for second language learners with high proficiency. This study showed that learning direction and learners’ second language proficiency has to be considered when teachers choose teaching methods for second language vocabulary learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 28 Japanese native speakers learning English at a Japanese university. Their English proficiency was determined by their vocabulary size (how many English words they knew). The participants’ proficiency was varied, ranging from beginner to proficient. 
● Participants began by completing a study session using a computer program. First, they saw 40 new English words paired with their Japanese equivalents, with each pair presented for 3 seconds. Then, they studied the new words in each learning direction. In English-to-Japanese learning, participants saw an English word and had to type the Japanese equivalent (e.g., DOG → 犬), whereas in Japanese-to-English learning, participants first saw a Japanese word, then had to type the corresponding English translation (e.g., 犬 → DOG). Participants were able to take as much time as they needed in the learning session. 
● Immediately after the learning session, the participants took two types of tests to measure how many words they had learned. In the English production test, participants had to write the English translation equivalents of the given Japanese words (e.g., 犬 = ?). In the Japanese production test, participants had to write the Japanese words corresponding to the given English words (e.g., DOG = ?). In scoring the tests, no spelling mistakes were allowed: a correct answer was scored as 1 point and an incorrect answer was scored as 0 points. 
● To test how many English words they knew, participants took an online vocabulary test. In this test, participants were presented 200 words and had to judge whether each word was a real word in English or a made-up word. 
What the researchers found
 
● Regardless of learning direction (Japanese to English or English to Japanese), all participants scored higher on the Japanese production test than the English production test. These results show that knowledge of the meaning of the foreign word was easier to gain than knowledge of the spelling of the foreign word. 
● In the Japanese production test, if the participants’ English proficiency was lower than intermediate, they learned more in the second language to first language learning condition. On the other hand, participants with above-intermediate English proficiency learned more in the first language to second language learning condition. These results suggest that the learning effects of the two conditions were influenced by the learners’ proficiency. 
● In the English production test, the differences were negligibly small between the two learning conditions. 
Things to consider
 
● This study shows that to learn the meaning of a foreign word, second language to first language learning was more effective for lower-proficiency learners, while first language to second language learning was more effective for higher-proficiency learners. However, learning direction seems to have little impact on acquiring knowledge of spellings of second language words. 
● In this study, however, no spelling mistakes were allowed. The results might have been different if a more lenient metric of scoring had been used. Gaining spelling knowledge is more difficult than gaining meanings of second language words; thus, a different scoring metric may be useful to analyze the second language production test. 