
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, all colleges in Korea were forced to transition to online teaching, as was the case in most of the rest of the world. This situation engendered confusion, frustration, and dissatisfaction among students as well as instructors. The present study examined college students’ perceptions of online learning in general and of one forced-transition but purpose-designed course in particular and compared their responses. The objective was to identify factors that might enhance the quality of online education and learner satisfaction. The results indicated that the students perceived online learning as less effective than traditional classes overall but were satisfied with the customized course, specifically citing the instructor’s prompt feedback, interaction among students, and effective design of tasks. Based on the results, the current study suggested pedagogical implications for successful online education. 
What the researchers did
 
● The present study applied a mixed method to ensure robust results, using a survey, interviews, students’ reflection papers, and the instructor’s field notes. 
● The study included 20 English-major students (male = 5, female = 15; junior = 9, senior = 11) in a four-year college in Korea, enrolled in an online course. 
● The study included four content-based language learning tasks: playing a mystery murder mobile game, writing a creative writing based on the game plot, creating a related media project, and creating a map-based essay. 
● The qualitative data were categorized into four categories, feedback, interaction, task design, and learning outcomes, based on Chickering and Gamson’s (1987) seven principles. 
What the researchers found
 
● The results indicated that the students perceived online learning as less effective than traditional classes overall but were satisfied with the customized course. 
● The students viewed the instructor’s prompt feedback, interaction among students, and effective design of tasks as critical to the success of online education. 
● The collaborative tasks also helped the students to develop such a sense of community, which could decrease negative emotions associated to online education, such as loneliness, isolation, low self-esteem, and low learning motivation. 
Things to consider
 
● The instructor needs to take more responsibility for course design, implementation, and facilitation in online education. 
● Instructors need to perform diverse roles, and without their constant endeavors, online education cannot be successful and will not be able to satisfy students’ expectations. 
● As language learning demands various language skills and interactions and opportunities to use the language, it requires the instructor’s creativity in designing authentic and meaningful language learning tasks in online education.  