
What this research was about and why it is important 
  English has become widespread as the language of communication for both native speakers and non-native speakers of English. This widespread use of English has resulted in students travelling across the world to foreign countries for their education and has prompted universities across the world to offer degree programmes taught in English. At many of these universities, the lecturers teaching in these degree programmes are not native speakers of English and may speak English with a foreign accent. The question is whether a foreign accent may hinder students’ understanding of the lecturers and also if students may evaluate the lecturers as less competent as a result of this foreign accent. The study compared the reactions of non-native and native students to lecturers with a slight and moderate foreign accent and lecturers with a native English accent. The question was if the students experienced problems understanding the lecturers and how they evaluated their competence and teaching quality. The study showed that the students felt that lecturers who had a clearly noticeable foreign accent were more difficult to understand. These lecturers were also given lower evaluations. If the students themselves were native speakers of English, the foreign accent of the lecturer caused no problems. 
What the researchers did
 
● The listeners were 189 native Dutch students, 159 native English students (mainly British, American and Australian), and 175 international students (from 44 different language backgrounds). The non-native listeners were all intermediate and advanced proficient speakers of English. 
● There were three fragments: one in which the lecturer spoke with a moderate Dutch accent in his English, a second one with a lecturer with a slight (near-native) Dutch accent in his English, and a third one in which the lecturer spoke with a native British English accent. 
● Listeners were asked to listen to one fragment and were asked to answer questions measuring their understanding of the lecture and questions about the lecturer in the fragment. 
● Listeners indicated if they thought the lecturer was difficult to understand and easy to follow. 
● Listeners evaluated competence, status, friendliness and teaching quality of the lecturer. 
What the researchers found
 For the Dutch listeners and the international listeners 
● Overall, the lecturers with a moderate Dutch accent in English were evaluated less positively than the lecturers with a slight Dutch accent and the lecturers with a native English accent. 
● The lecturers with a moderate Dutch accent were thought to be more difficult to understand and were thought to be less competent and less likeable. They were also thought to have less status and to have lower teaching qualities than the lecturers with a slight Dutch accent and the lecturers with a native English accent. 
● The lecturers with a slight Dutch accent were as easy to understand as the native English lecturer and were evaluated as being equally competent and likeable as the native English lecturer. They were also evaluated as having similar status and teaching quality as the native English lecturers. For the native listeners 
● The lecturers with a moderate Dutch accent, lecturers with the slight Dutch accent and the lecturers with a native English accent were evaluated as equally easy to understand, competent and friendly and as having equal status and teaching quality. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, we found that speakers who have a foreign accent in their English may be evaluated negatively if their accent is clearly noticeable but not if their foreign accent is only faintly noticeable. 
● This negative evaluation was mainly found for listeners who were also not mother tongue speakers of English 
● The negative evaluation was not found for listeners who were themselves native speakers of English. 