
What this research was about and why it is important 
 What is more effective for learning a new language, multilingual pedagogies that make use of the first/other language (L1+) of students, or target-language-only pedagogies? This quasi-experimental 10-week study compared the classroom learning outcomes of an L2-only monolingual pedagogy versus an L1+L2 multilingual pedagogy for beginning-level French and Arabic instruction. The multilingual L2+L1 pedagogy was found to result in better L2 learning at these beginning levels for both French (a commonly taught language) and Arabic (a less-commonly taught language). What the researcher did 
● Two groups of volunteers in the U.S. took no-cost, no-credit language courses for beginning French (N=15) and beginning Arabic (N=38). Most participants were users of L1 English. Ages ranged between 22 and 60. Self-reported L2 proficiency was at or below A1 on the CEFR. 
● Each class met weekly over 10 weeks for a total of 25 hours per course. Two well-qualified multilingual teachers, one per language, were recruited as researcher-practitioners. Each taught a treatment section multilingually (i.e., using L2 + English), and a control section monolingually (i.e., using as much as possible the L2 only). Their relative frequency of L2 and L1 use was found to be faithful to a monolingual or a multilingual pedagogy. 
● The individual scores for weekly quizzes on vocabulary, listening, reading, and writing, were collected throughout the 10 weeks and compared. What the researcher found  
● In both languages, the multilingual treatment section outperformed the monolingual control section, scoring higher than the monolingual section overall and in most skill-specific quizzes, although differences were statistically significant only for overall and vocabulary quizzes in Arabic. 
● For French, sessions with higher L1 use in both treatment and control groups coincided with higher quiz scores. For Arabic, higher L1 use was also beneficial, in that (a) sessions with higher L1 use in the control group narrowed the score gap between treatment and control, and (b) sessions with lower L1 use in the treatment group narrowed the score gap between treatment and control. 
● Under the multilingual pedagogy condition, for both French and Arabic, use of the target language was lower than the 90% recommended by ACTFL yet seemingly still sufficient for successful L2 learning. 
Things to consider
 
● The results support L2+L1 multilingual pedagogies for both French and Arabic, independent from instructors, and across language skills. At least for beginning levels, students can learn the L2 better when space is made for the L1 in the communicative language classroom. 
● More research is necessary to design professional development and train language teachers in making professional judgments for how to best incorporate the L1 and other non-target languages in their communicative teaching so as to reap the L2 learning benefits of multilingual pedagogies. 