
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Collaborative strategic reading (CSR) activities, which focus on teaching reading strategies in collaborative reading tasks, have many advantages, Yet, due to a number of factors, for example, an individualistic mindset of learners, they might not always be effective in improving reading comprehension. This study investigated the effect of teaching reading strategies in CSR and ECSR (the extended version of CSR which implements the explicit teaching of social-emotional skills into CSR) groups on reading comprehension. Findings showed that reading strategy instruction only improved overall reading comprehension in the ECSR group, and that the ECSR group learned more social-emotional skills than the CSR group. 
What the researchers did
 
● Forty-four Iranian secondary-level students were selected to take part in the study. They were assigned to one of two groups, namely the CSR and the ECSR groups. 
● To test reading comprehension, the CSR and ECSR groups were given the same reading comprehension test before and after reading strategies instruction. The test was of different formats including multiple-choice questions, matching questions, true or false questions, and a cloze test. 
● A post-treatment interview was given to the two groups about their perception toward CSR and ECSR. 
● The CSR group received a reading strategy intervention in collaborative subgroups without receiving any instruction on social-emotional skills. 
● The ECSR group received a reading strategy intervention in collaborative subgroups along with instruction on social-emotional skills, such as self-awareness and social awareness skills. 
What the researchers found
 
● Reading strategy instruction improved overall reading comprehension but only in the ECSR group. 
● Reading strategy instruction improved reading comprehension in two of the four formats of the reading test in the ECSR group. The CSR group showed improvement in none of the four test formats. 
● Although the students in both groups had a positive perception toward the intervention, the ECSR group 
● learned more social skills than the CSR group. Implementing socio-emotional skills into CSR also improved emotions and attitudes, and reading strategy use. 
Things to consider
 
● Findings of the study would indicate that the effects of ECSR, in comparison with CSR, on learners’ development are more comprehensive as learners in the ECSR groups improve cognitively, emotionally, and socially.  
● It is suggested that teachers consider boosting the socio-emotional competence of the learners in collaborative tasks to create a more effective learning atmosphere. 
● The findings of the study support the teachability of socio-emotional skills.  
● It is recommended that future research considers the effect of implementing socio-emotional skills in collaborative tasks in teaching other language skills, such as writing. 