
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The flipped classroom has become a popular teaching approach in post-secondary institutions. To date, there has been no research on how effective this approach is when teaching/learning American Sign Language (ASL). This study was conducted with students learning ASL to see if there would be positive outcomes/benefits for students learning ASL as their second language. A survey and questionnaires were administered to students to elicit their reactions to their learning experience via the flipped classroom. Students’ performances in both traditional and flipped classrooms were also examined for the effectiveness of the teaching approaches, and their responses to questions provided insights for pursuing the best approach for learning ASL as a second language. The flipped approach provided benefits to students similar to the traditional approach through engaging meaningful activities and conversations. 
What the researchers did
 
● We administered survey and questionnaire to 41 students enrolled in upper-level ASL classes in a post-secondary setting. 
● 22 students were enrolled in class with the traditional approach while 19 students were enrolled in the class with the flipped approach using the same curriculum materials. 
● Students’ grades from both classes were calculated and compared. 
● Students provided responses based on their learning experience in the traditional and flipped classrooms. 
● Students’ responses from the survey were compared regarding the two different teaching approaches. 
What the researchers found
 
● Through the questionnaire, we found that students enrolled in the flipped classroom were as satisfied as the students in traditional classroom with support and encouragement from their instructor, and felt more responsible for their learning and participation. 
● Both the traditional and flipped classrooms increased students’ congeniality and cooperativeness with their peers. 
● No statistical differences were found between the two classes based on survey results or students’ grades. 
Things to consider
 
● The finding from students’ perceptions and performances indicated that the flipped approach is as viable as the traditional classroom. 
● Students find the flipped approach and the traditional approach equally beneficial in terms of support, encouragement, responsibility, congeniality, and cooperativeness as well as the opportunity to participate in meaningful activities and conversations. 
● With both approaches, students recognized the value of learning with peers, participation in activities to increase confidence, flexibility of having content online, quality of having contact with instructor and in-class discussions, and a greater sense of community. 
● The limitations of this current study are the size of the study (only one traditional class and one flipped class) and the use of two different instructors. 
● Overall, the effectiveness of the teaching approach is based on lesson content, student preferences, and learning styles. 