
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Researchers who investigate second language learning have long been interested in the practices students employ to develop new skills. Such practices are typically referred to as “learning strategies.” This idea has been used to examine the acquisition of various linguistic skills, including listening, speaking, reading, and writing. For instructors of writing, knowledge about students’ strategies is especially helpful, since instructors typically do not know what practices students use to compose assignments that they complete outside of the classroom. Developing insights on these practices can support effective teaching. This study investigated the writing strategies used by a group of international college students in the United States. In addition to documenting strategies used by the students, the study aimed to show how their selection and implementation of specific practices connected to their personal beliefs about who they were at that moment and who they aspired to become. For this reason, the research argues that students’ writing strategies can be understood as acts of identity.  What the researcher did 
● The researcher studied seven international students who attended the same university in the United States and used English as a second or additional language; the students were diverse in terms of gender, race, and cultural and linguistic backgrounds. 
● The researcher carried out 54 interviews lasting about 45 minutes each with the seven students; the interviews stretched over four years, meaning the same students were interviewed multiple times. 
● The researcher also collected 105 samples of writing assignments that the seven students completed in college. 
● The researcher analyzed transcripts of the interviews and the students’ writing samples to arrive at conclusions. 
What the researchers found
 
● The students used multiple strategies to help them achieve writing success, and each student used strategies in unique ways. Thus, while there was overlap in what students did, each student developed a tailored approach.  
● The five most commonly used strategies were 1) connecting assignments to personal interests, self, or home culture; 2) applying lessons learned in writing or other classes; 3) getting help from professors; 4) getting help from the university writing center; 5) getting help from friends. 
● Students described using strategies in three basic ways: 1) to help them improve their English writing skills (defined as growth strategies); 2) to express and develop their personal identities (investment strategies); 3) to simply get a good grade and move on to other tasks that they considered more important (survival strategies). 
● No matter which strategies were used, or to what ends, students’ decisions about using strategies were closely linked to their personal beliefs about who they were at the moment (identity) and who they aspired to become (imagined future selves).  
Things to consider
 
● Conceptualizing English language learners’ writing strategies in relation to personal identities offers a holistic view of students. In this light, students are not just learners in a classroom or an academic program; they are people with complex and diverse life trajectories that shape their approaches to learning. If educators can begin thinking about students’ learning strategies in this way, they may also be able to develop pedagogical approaches that are responsive to identity, e.g., by finding ways to help students explore connections between their personal goals and their academic work. 
● Only seven students were included in the study, and all were enrolled at the same university in the United States. This means that their experiences cannot be easily generalized to all students. 