
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Learning English in an era of ever-intensifying globalization could be challenging to learners with different linguistic, cultural, and national profiles. While many scholars caution against the oppressive encroachment of English on other languages and cultures, we know very little about alternative and ethical roles that English could play in terms of teaching values and promoting social justice and understanding. In this study, the researcher spent time in classrooms where Palestinian-Arab pre-service English teachers in an Arab middle school in Israel used English to respond to some forms of inequality and marginalization prevalent in the textbooks that they were required to use. Analysis of the teacher’ dialogue journals, and their classroom interactions, offers three important strategies that teachers could use to harness the ethical role of English for social justice. These were: (1) contesting the negative representations and marginalization of different people/cultures in textbooks, (2) engaging students in intercultural dialogues, and (3) increasing students’ agency and reflexivity in English teaching programs. What the researcher did 
● As part of the researcher’s commitment to examine how the teaching of English could potentially become an arena for effecting social change, the researcher, also a teacher educator, observed ten Palestinian-Arab pre-service English teachers (who constitute a minority in Israel), and asked them to keep a dialogue journal. 
● Dialogue journals refer to written dialogues between learners and their instructor in which learners bring their life experiences, and their social and cultural backgrounds. The pre-service teachers were encouraged to critically reflect on the curricular materials they were required to use by the official linguistic/educational policy. 
● In her analysis, the researcher mainly relied on the dialogue journals of two teachers whose content marked a developed sense of agency and understanding of the role dialogue played in promoting intercultural understanding. 
● The study also involved observing the work of teachers in class and analyzing observational field notes. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers could advance the role English plays in promoting social justice when they critically respond to negative ideologies about other people/cultures in English textbooks.  
● One way of responding is through engaging learners in a dialogue about their own and other cultures. In her study, the researcher reinforced how important it is to discuss with learners issues that are derived from their own lived experiences. 
● When the cultural content of English instruction resonates with learners’ cultural understanding, learners are more likely to use English in order to negotiate pressing matters relevant to different aspects of their identities and realities. 
● The teachers in the study tried to remedy some forms of injustices by granting their learners a voice through English, which enabled these learners to engage in an intercultural dialogue about local and global matters.  
Things to consider
 
● The study suggests that English teaching could bring about social change when the issues discussed in the classroom are derived from the learners’ current (often) problematic reality, rather than what textbook writers perceive as general-interest cultural content. 
● While negotiating such themes in English, learners are more likely to act to change current realities of unequal educational opportunities, misrepresentation, and marginalization through critical examinations of their own local community and that of others. 
● English education could, in this sense, impact adult learning processes and shape the ethical development of learners. 
● Set out to offer an alternative to its commonly viewed oppressive role, the article shows that English could indeed grant marginalized populations (e.g.,Palestinian-Arab learners in Israel) a voice through which they could become more appreciative of their own local culture yet also more open to learning about global and intercultural matters. 