
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers’ views on assessment are a critical indicator of teacher assessment literacy. This study investigated views on assessment held by pre-service teachers who prepared to teach Chinese to international learners with diverse cultural and social backgrounds. This group of teacher candidates, who were educated in examination-dominant Chinese culture, faced the challenges that their potential learners might bring to the classroom varied or even competing views of assessment from those held by their Chinese language teachers. The study found six factors influencing views of assessment held by pre-service teachers. The views of assessment held by the pre-service teachers were further categorized into three groups: balanced, improvement-oriented and negative. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 279 first-year pre-service teachers who were studying the two-year Master’s program of teaching Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages (MTCSOL) in government-funded universities in mainland China. 
● Participants completed a 27-item questionnaire that was designed to elicit their self-rating on conceptions regarding assessment. 
What the researchers found
 
● Six factors influenced the views pre-service teachers in the study held of assessment: school accountability, student accountability, improvement, bad, ignored and inaccurate. Under the factor of improvement, there were three sub-factors: describing abilities, improving teaching and learning, and valid. 
● Pre-service teachers who thought that assessment was used to judge the quality of schools and the performance of students supported the role of assessment in improving teaching and learning. However, these teachers thought assessment employed to evaluate the quality of schools was inaccurate. Pre-service teachers who believed that assessment improves teaching and learning were less likely to believe that assessment was bad. 
● The views of assessment teachers were categorized into three groups: balanced, improvement-oriented and negative. Most of the pre-service teachers were assigned to improvement-oriented group. Teachers in this group were more likely to believe that the fundamental purpose of assessment was to improve teaching practice and student learning. However, more than 40% of the teachers were categorized as negative. They were hesitant over the usefulness of different assessment methods. 
Things to consider
 
● Pre-service teachers’ views of assessment varied across societies and cultures with different assessment polices. Even within the same country and population, they were not likely to hold similar conceptions of assessment. 
● Given the diverse backgrounds of future learners, pre-service teachers who prepared to teach Chinese to international learners were strongly recommended to gain the knowledge of different types of assessment. Courses or training on assessment needed to be a compulsory component in similar Master’s programs for second language education. 