
What this research was about and why it is important 
 We know that foreign language learners can be exposed to the foreign language inside and outside the classroom. In the past researchers have pointed out learners need more input than what is provided in the language classroom. In this study we investigated receptive vocabulary learning in young language learners (10-12 years) in two languages, French and English. French was taught in the classroom, contact with English only took place outside the classroom. The researchers found that learners knew more English words than French words even before the start of English lessons. The researchers found that cognates (words that are similar in form and meaning to their translation equivalent) and more frequent words were easier to learn in both languages. The researchers also found that children with more out-of-school exposure knew more words. Out-of-school exposure to French was rather limited and there was not much variation in exposure between the children. For English, there was more out-of-school exposure overall and there were larger differences between the children. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers tested 110 Dutch-speaking children from the last year of primary schools in Flanders, prior to formal English instruction and after they had received 100 hours of French classes. 
● The children took an English and French receptive vocabulary test (matching a picture to a spoken word) and filled in a questionnaire. 
● Of each of the test words the following characteristics were recorded: cognateness; frequency of the word (how frequently a word occurs in the foreign language); language (English or French). 
● The researchers measured the amount and types of out-of-school exposure to both languages. 
● The researchers investigated how word characteristics, exposure and gender predicted word learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learning difficulty was determined by characteristics of the word. Cognates were easier to learn than non-cognates. Highly frequent words were easier to learn. English words were easier to learn than French words. 
● Learning difficulty was also determined by the amount of exposure the children received. Children with more out-of-school exposure to the language were more likely to know a word. 
● For English, children who were more involved in reading, listening to music, using social media and speaking English knew more words. 
● The children’s gender did not predict whether they would know a word. 
Things to consider
 
● The study shows that children can pick up a lot of new words through out-of-school exposure even before language classes have started. 
● The study furthermore shows the need to supplement language classes with exposure outside the classroom if we want learners to have a large vocabulary. 
● The findings suggest that exposure which requires actively using the language without L1 support (such as using social media) leads to most learning in an out-of-school context. 