
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Multimodal composing involves communicating through a wide variety of modes, including visuals, sound, text, and movement. A growing body of research has emphasized the benefits of digital multimodal composing for emergent bilingual (EB) students to express themselves in engaging and empowering ways. Although important strides have been made in understanding EB youth’s multimodal composing processes and products, more research is needed to understand students’ viewpoints of and experience with creating digital projects for academic purposes. This study examined 94 bilingual and EB 10th grade (age 15-16) students’ perspectives on multimodal composing in their English Language Arts (ELA) class. Findings revealed how students overwhelmingly held a positive view of multimodal composing in the classroom, which a majority believed supported their learning process, innovative thinking, and identity expression. 
What the researchers did
 
● Students participated in three different literary units in their ELA class where they collaboratively created digital projects: a hypertext poetry analysis, a persuasive podcast, and a video literary analysis. 
● The study participants were 94 10th grade (age 15-16) bilingual students with a wide range of language proficiencies. 
● Students were asked to complete a written reflection after each of the three digital projects where they described their process creating their work and views of communicating with multiple modes. 
● Some of the students participated in an interview after at least one of the projects (63 students, 108 total interviews) where they were asked to describe their overall experience with composing the multimodal projects in their ELA class. 
● Student reflections and interviews were analyzed for themes in the affordances and constraints of their experiences. 
What the researchers found
 Across student perspectives, six main themes emerged for the affordances of multimodal composing: 
● Learning through Multimodal Composing: 97% of students explained how composing with multiple modes helped them to conceptualize their ideas and gain an in-depth understanding of the ELA content. 
● Innovative Meaning-Making Through Multimodal Composing: 91% of students described how multimodal composing allowed for them to “think in a different way” and creatively express themselves. 
● Bilingual and Bicultural Identity Expression through Multimodal Composing: 72% of students described how multimodal composing offered impactful opportunities to infuse aspects of their lives into their digital projects. 
● Affective Explorations through Multimodal Composing: 57% of students explained how they could “feel the emotions” of the ELA content when representing their ideas through visuals and sounds. 
● Collaborating through Multimodal Composing: 45% of students explained how the digital projects provided new opportunities to collaborate and learn from peers. 
● Multilevel Connections through Multimodal Composing: 35% of students described how they were able to make connections to other works (e.g., movies, tv shows, songs, literature) and social issues (e.g., climate change, Black Lives Matter, gun violence) through their digital projects. Students also described a variety of challenges when creating their digital projects, including technical issues during the composing process (34%), difficulty finding “the perfect mode” to encapsulate their ideas (29%), not having enough time to complete their projects (17%), and uncertainty of expectations or how their projects would be assessed (16%). 
Things to consider
 
● This study contributes new insights into the learning potential of multimodal composition for academic purposes and how students can engage with content in innovative, personal, and impactful ways. 
● These findings have implications for effectively integrating multimodal composition in the multilingual classroom, including the importance of scaffolding students’ processes and the need for additional research in this area. Furthermore, teachers need professional development and technical support to leverage the unique meaning-making opportunities of multimodal composing. 