
What this research was about and why it is important 
  This study aimed to teach reading strategies to secondary school students and test whether their reading comprehension scores improved. The researchers compared groups receiving in-class instruction in reading strategies with a control groups to understand whether the two groups had differences in their decisions regarding using reading strategies in strategy clusters. Strategy clusters are groups of strategies that are used together to address a difficulty. For example, semantic guessing, sub-vocalisation, and question generation are used within seconds to question the meaning a word or a phrase. This research is original for its focus on strategy clustering. Strategy clustering is an issue which has been repeatedly emphasized as an essential part of strategy use; however, there is little research on strategy clusters. Understanding how strategy clusters are used in different combinations by learners could help us support them in developing their language skills. The results show that the instruction successfully promoted the use of strategy clusters. 
What the researchers did

● Planned a Strategy Instruction (SI) study that encouraged the use of strategy clusters. Provided in-class instruction for a school semester for 12-year-old Turkish learners of English (n=119). The students completed the reading section of the Flyers tests and completed a reading strategies questionnaire before and after the instruction. 
● Verbal report protocols were administered upon the completion of the instruction. Verbal report protocols refer to the data collection process when a learner is asked to verbalise what he or she is thinking while engaged with a reading passage.  
● Analysed the data by especially focusing on strategy-cluster use.  
What the researchers found

● SI effectively promoted the use of strategy clusters. The participants combined reading strategies of text-driven and conceptually-driven operations in their strategy clusters. An example of text-driven operations is semantic guessing and an example of conceptually driven operations is background knowledge. 
● The SI improved the participants’ reading comprehension scores significantly. SI had a medium effect on reading comprehension scores and strategy use. Theoretically based strategy selection contributed to strategy clustering.  
Things to consider
 
● SI should be considered as part of learners’ curriculum. Reading strategies can help learners improve their reading comprehension. 
● When addressing learners' skill-specific problems, researchers should consider skill-specific theories. 
● More research is needed on strategy clusters. Once we understand strategy clusters, we can understand how they function and help our learners be more successful at using them. 
● Self-report data such as questionnaires will not advance the language learner strategies research in the future. 
● More research is needed on the function and interaction of strategies in strategy clusters. 
● More research on strategy clusters that is theoretically supported is needed. 