
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers often provide students with written feedback when marking essays in the second language classroom. Previous research has shown that written feedback can foster the learning process of writing, but limited attention has been given to how teachers evaluate their feedback and why they perform such a practice. This study investigated four novice university teachers’ conceptions and practices regarding written feedback by analysing marked students’ writing samples and conducting individual semi-structured interviews. More specifically, feedback scope (whether teachers correct errors comprehensively or selectively), feedback focus (whether teachers fix more errors teachers provided corrections/solutions directly or indirectly) are examined. The study revealed a complex relationship between the teachers’ beliefs and performances. language, or content and organization), and feedback strategy (whether in 
What the researchers did
 
● Four Chinese university writing teachers (1 male and 3 females) with master-degree in English-related fields participated in the study. Their work experience varied from one to three years. Only one of them studied abroad for four months, and two of them had training experience in teaching English writing. 
● Marked essays written by 40 students (6 males and 34 females) from the classes of the four teachers (10 for each teacher) were collected to analyse the teachers’ feedback practices. The students (aged 19-21) were English-majored second-year university students. They composed 150-200word, argumentative essays within a 40-minute period without any other references. 
● Individual 30- to 45-minute-long semi-structured interviews were conducted in Chinese were audio-recorded and transcribed later for further analysis with the teachers’ permission. Complementary documents were also gathered, such as teaching plans, course syllabuses, and writing rubrics. 
● Teachers’ feedback beliefs and practices were examined from three perspectives: feedback focus, strategy, and scope. The number of feedback points in each category was compared to determine the teachers’ actual feedback practices. Their beliefs about feedback were analysed by interpreting their interview responses. In addition, the researchers compared what the teachers did in marking essays and what they said in the interviews. 
What the researchers found
 
● The teachers provided more feedback on the language aspect than on content and organization, which was likely attributable to their past learning experiences where accuracy was highly valued. However, three of the four teachers thought that more attention should be paid to the content and organization in feedback provision. 
● The teachers seemed to correct all essay errors rather than target specific error types. They were more familiar with the traditional feedback method, correcting every error, and believed that such practice could help students improve overall writing performance. Most teachers also believed they should provide feedback extensively regardless of error types, which may be influenced by traditional Chinese culture. 
● The teachers combined direct and indirect feedback strategies in feedback practices. They tended to provide suggestions or corrections when encountering linguistic mistakes, but they seldom do that when responding to problems about content or organization. Regarding the teacher belief, two teachers favoured giving correct answers considering instant intervention and the teacher’s responsibility, while one supported the opposite because of the benefits for long-time development. Another teacher valued the combination of the two strategies and emphasised that students’ needs should be considered. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, the novice teachers’ beliefs about feedback provision partially matched their actual practices. The misalignments in feedback focus and strategy may be attributed to their past learning experience, insufficient teaching experience, fragile beliefs, and work demands. 
● This study suggested that novice teachers should always reflect on what they believe and enact about written feedback. More professional training and constructive suggestions from teacher educators and researchers are encouraged to promote teachers’ development in providing written feedback more efficiently. 
● Future research could focus on novice teachers from other backgrounds, influential personal and social factors, and how teacher beliefs may change over an extended timeframe. 