
What this research was about and why it is important 
 There have long been differences in the views of language teachers and second language (L2) acquisition researchers regarding whether, what, when, how, and by whom students’ spoken errors should be corrected. These discrepancies may result in confusion, and have negative consequences for teachers’ practice. This study investigated the views of English as a foreign language (EFL) teachers regarding error correction, and explored how their views developed after a targeted pilot professional development (PD) program. There were some minor changes regarding teachers’ views about the importance, targets and sources of feedback, and some more significant changes in their views about the types and timing of feedback. These findings highlight the importance of PD programs that incorporate experiential learning and reflective activities for teachers to reflect on what they are doing in their actual classrooms and why. 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited ten EFL in-service teachers at two public high schools in Vietnam to voluntarily participate in the study. 
● The teachers were asked to participate in a PD program, including: o A one-day workshop in which they discussed research findings regarding feedback in L2 classrooms o Follow-up activities over eight weeks, reflecting on their feedback provision in relation to the workshop input (writing three weekly reflective journals; self-video-recording one lesson, reviewing and reflecting on the lesson in writing; observing one peer teach a lesson, reflecting on the lesson in writing) 
● They interviewed the teachers individually before and after the PD program regarding their views about who should correct students’ spoken errors, and whether, what, when, and how to correct them. The interviews were semi-structured, lasted between 66 and 78 minutes each, and were audio-recorded. 
What the researchers found
 
● As revealed in the interviews before the PD program, the teachers were very positive about the value of feedback. However, they claimed to provide feedback intuitively and unconsciously. They reported not to reflect on their feedback provision, nor consider the effectiveness of their feedback on students’ learning. They did not really think about the interaction between feedback types, error types and feedback timing. 
● The follow-up reflective activities helped the teachers reflect more deeply not only on what they had learnt, but also why they were responding to their students’ errors. The PD program allowed time for the implementation of some new feedback strategies, leading the teachers to reshape some of their views about feedback provision. In the reflective writings and the interviews after the workshop, the teachers reported that they: o Paid more attention to their feedback provision. o Put more thought into error types, and selected errors to correct more systematically and more consciously in relation to the lesson focus and students’ proficiency levels. o Put more trust in their students’ ability to correct their peers’ errors. o Used a broader range of feedback types, shifting their views about evaluating a corrective feedback type from its ability to eliminate an error to considering its effects on students’ learning. o Felt comfortable giving feedback both in accuracy work and fluency work. 
Things to consider
 
● The teachers’ comments before the PD program indicated that they had little knowledge about corrective feedback although they were very experienced, suggesting that oral feedback is a topic worth including in PD programs for in-service EFL teachers. This also suggests that education programs should incorporate components of teachers’ beliefs, including beliefs about feedback. 
● This study can be a concrete resource for teacher education/ training programs. 
● The success of this model of PD program opens up new avenues for in-service teachers’ PD programs because it is demonstrably effective without being costly in terms of time and efforts for both trainers and teachers. The inclusion of well-designed and well-guided follow-up activities can provide a significant boost for teachers’ learning. 