
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In bilingual programs, language separation has traditionally been advocated. This advocacy sits alongside a call to engage with students’ home languages to enrich their learning. The study explored how students’ diverse languages can be included in bilingual education, whilst still supporting the language of the program. The setting was a Japanese-English primary school where 85% of the students came from various language backgrounds, including Japanese. The school was transitioning from 30% of Japanese instruction time to a 50:50 program. In the study, one Foundation and one Year 5/6 teacher incorporated their students’ home languages into their English-medium lessons. Foundation (5-year-old) students in the new 50:50 program were initially more engaged with Japanese. In contrast, the Year 5/6 (10/11-year-old) students, who were still receiving 30% of Japanese instruction time, showed ambivalence towards Japanese and more engagement with (other) home languages. What the researcher did 
● Data were collected from a Foundation teacher and a Year 5/6 teacher and their students over two years (2017-2018). Both teachers were generalist teachers in English-medium classrooms. 
● The researcher worked with the teachers to develop instructional hypotheses based on research and 
● existing school practices, and then the teachers trialled these hypotheses in class. In 2017 the hypothesis was: the creation of opportunities for students to consider how they use languages and with whom, can assist in using these practices as a resource for learning. In 2018 this was refined to: Japanese and other home languages can be scaffolded and used in different ways as a resource for learning in the English-medium classroom. 
● Data were drawn from the teachers’ documentation of three relevant lesson sequences of four or five lessons (one in 2017 and two in 2018), classroom observations, students work samples, and teachers’ reflections on the lessons. 
What the researchers found
 
● Incorporating home languages into English-medium classes was found to develop students’ linguistic resources and crosslinguistic/metalinguistic awareness, and affirm bi/multilingual identities. 
● Teachers’ pedagogical modifications related well to English curriculum content descriptors for language awareness at Foundation level and more detailed text analysis and writing development for Year 5/6. 
● Foundation students positioned Japanese as an extra resource they could use to complete activities in the English-medium classroom, but some children needed more scaffolding to use their home languages. 
● Year 5/6 students engaged enthusiastically with their own and others’ home languages, but some non-Japanese heritage students demonstrated disengagement with Japanese. These students needed encouragement to complete Japanese-related activities. 
Things to consider
 
● The inclusion of home languages in the English-medium classroom did not appear to be intuitive for Foundation students or parents, but more scaffolding (students) and explanation (parents) from the teacher led to more participation. 
● Non-Japanese heritage Foundation students in the 50:50 program were found to position themselves more readily as knowers of Japanese than their counterparts in Year 5/6. This may have been related to the change in program and/or to a plateau in language proficiency in upper primary. If students feel disengaged with a language, then it may be challenging to encourage its use in a space where the language is not officially sanctioned. Whole-school support and also the linking of language practices to specific outcomes that are made explicit to the students may help in this case. It is important to understand and work with students’ positioning towards different languages in order to leverage home languages, including the minority target language, in the English-medium classroom. Students can come from linguistically diverse backgrounds, and working with their linguistic resources is a goal that can sit alongside promotion of the minority language in a bilingual program. 