
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Despite the widespread interest in bilingualism and multilingualism, most theories and models that are put forward thus far are abstract and stay at the conceptual level. Without computational implementations, it remains unclear to what extent these theories are generalizable. The goal of this study is to introduce Linear Discriminative Learning, a computational framework grounded in the theory of discriminative learning, as a tool to study lexical learning and processing in bilinguals and trilinguals. To illustrate the application of this model, in this study we addressed some of the common issues in the field. For example, how is the learning of a new language affected by the point at which the learning starts? Furthermore, is third language (L3) learning qualitatively different from second language (L2) learning? We explain how computational simulations help us answer these questions. 
What the researchers did
 
● We constructed a small multilingual lexicon that contains English, German, Dutch and Mandarin words of translation equivalents, for example, rock in English, Stein in German, steen in Dutch, shitou in Mandarin. We assumed that these translation equivalents have similar meanings and share the same frequency distribution in the respective languages. Some of these words are homophones. 
● In each simulation, words from one or more languages were presented to the model, and the model was trained incrementally to comprehend and produce these words. To monitor the learning process, we traced and evaluated model performance throughout the simulation. 
● Different learning scenarios were created. For bilinguals, for example, we manipulated the onset of L2 learning to simulate the learning of simultaneous, early, and late bilinguals. For trilinguals, we exchanged the learning order of the languages, e.g., L1-English, L2-German, L3-Mandarin trilinguals vs L1-English, L2-Mandarin, L3-German trilinguals. 
What the researchers found
 
● Model performance improves with learning. The onset of L2 determines the efficiency of L2 learning to a large extent. All else being equal, the earlier L2 is learned, the faster L2 attains high accuracy. In addition, the learning trajectory of a given language differs, depending on whether it is learned as L2 or L3. 
● When more than one language is learned, a large number of production errors are due to language intrusion. For example, the targeted word of English rock is produced as German Stein. In general, L2 and L3 suffer a lot from L1 intrusion, but L2 and L3 intrude into L1 as well. Intrusion errors decrease as learning progresses. 
● Homophones delay production learning. In multilingual settings, languages with more homophones are prone to intrusion from languages with fewer homophones.  
Things to consider
 
● The advantage of an early onset for L2 learning is in line with findings in the bilingual literature. However, one confounding factor that is often not considered together with the onset effect is the amount of L2 input. When L2 learning starts earlier, the amount of L2 input that a given L2 speaker receives also increases. While the two factors usually are confounded in human subjects, with computational simulations, we can easily tease them apart and examine the effects of individual factors. 
● Although the learning trajectory of a given language appears to differ when learned as L2 and L3, this does not necessarily entail that different mechanisms are involved in L2 and L3 learning. Given that the learning algorithm in the model never changes, differences are more likely to result from the distributional properties of a given language and those of the other languages. For example, according to our simulations, the number of homophones in the languages substantially affects production accuracy throughout the course of learning. Computational modeling is a useful tool to help us clarify the cause of observed differences. 