What this study was about and why it is important There have been plenty of studies on the effects of written corrective feedback (WCF) in students’ second languages (L2). However, there is limited research on the effects of comprehensive WCF in Chinese English for Academic Purposes (EAP) contexts. Considering the importance of WCF in developing English as a Foreign Language students’ EAP skills, Zhang and Cheng conducted this mixed-methods study to bridge that gap. In two intact university English classes, a treatment group received four rounds of comprehensive WCF, while no feedback was offered to a comparison group. A test given one week after the treatment and another test four weeks after revealed that such WCF helped the treatment group improve their writing accuracy and fluency and retain the positive effects in the delayed posttest, while it did not enhance their syntactic complexity. The comparison group did not statistically significantly improve their writing accuracy, syntactic complexity, or fluency. The authors finish the article with practical implications for EAP writing pedagogy. 
What the researchers did

● The researchers recruited 72 second year English majors through a convenience sampling strategy. Students came from two intact classes in a second-tier university in mainland China. Participants were randomly assigned into two groups: A treatment group (n = 36) and a comparison group (n = 36). The two groups used the same university syllabus and textbooks, attended the same in-and-after class writing activities, and had the same classroom instruction time. 
● Participants in the treatment group received four WCF intervention sessions targeting all errors in their writing (e.g., singularity/plurality, voice, tense, part of speech, word choice, and sentence structure, among other language-related errors). 
● Participants in the treatment group received WCF and were asked to revise their work without looking at WCF. The participants in the comparison group did not receive WCF but were encouraged to self-revise their writing. However, they were offered WCF after the intervention. 
● A series of writing tests were administered together with open-ended questions that assessed the effects of comprehensive WCF on their accuracy, syntactic complexity, and fluency. A survey was also administered to identify their background and preferences for different data presentation methods. 
What the researchers found
 
● Providing L2 EAP learners with direct comprehensive WCF facilitated their writing accuracy in new texts in the immediate and delayed posttests. 
● Comprehensive WCF did not show any effects on L2 learners’ syntactic complexity. However, it contributed to students’ gains in both accuracy and fluency. 
Things to consider

● Further research could explore the effects of comprehensive WCF on macro-level EAP writing focuses, such as students’ genre knowledge and idea development. 
● Explicit instruction in constructing complex sentences is critical in the general EAP writing classroom since comprehensive WCF did not enrich students’ knowledge of syntactic complexity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     