
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Past research has highlighted the benefits for second language learners from the two main process-based listening instruction methods of (1) strategy training, and (2) interactive training (that combines strategy training with that of bottom-up skills). Both these methods generally benefit less-proficient listeners (LPLs) more than more-proficient listeners (MPLs). However, it was unclear which of these methods to prioritize for LPLs, and which to prioritize for MPLs. In this study, I explored this question by reanalyzing previous research I had conducted comparing the effectiveness of the two methods. I also factored in the learners’ listening proficiency level The results of the study showed that strategy training benefited learners at both proficiency levels, but that the addition of bottom-up skills (in the interactive training) benefited the LPLs more than the MPLs. What the researcher did 
● I reanalyzed quantitative data from my previous research that had compared strategy training and interactive training, but in this study, I also factored in the learners’ listening proficiency level: LPLs at low-intermediate level and MPLs at intermediate level. 
● The participants were from two classes of Mandarin-speaking first-year English learners at a university in Taiwan; o One class received strategy training, which included activities focused on, amongst others, using stressed content words and discourse markers to help with comprehension, and using contextual and co-textual information to infer general meaning, predict text content, and guess unknown words and information. o The other class received interactive training, which combined strategy training with activities focused on aspects of connected speech, such as transcriptions tasks. 
● Each class was taught for 22 hours (one hour a week over one and a half semesters). 
● I used various research instruments to examine quantitative outcomes in terms of the learners’ (1) listening comprehension (2) bottom-up skills (3) strategies and (4) confidence-motivation. 
● Qualitative data was also gathered, through questionnaires and interviews, chiefly to help explain the quantitative outcomes. What the researcher found 
● The strategy training benefitted learners at both proficiency levels. 
● The addition of bottom-up skills – in the interactive training – benefited the LPLs more than the MPLs, in relation to their listening comprehension and their bottom-up skills (among the bottom-up skills, especially those of connected speech and intonation skills). 
Things to consider
 Two main instructional recommendations flow from the study: 
● Consider teaching lower-intermediate level listeners both strategies and bottom-up skills: (1) learning the strategies helps them to compensate for their text decoding deficiencies, while (2) learning the bottom-up skills helps them to develop these deficient decoding abilities. 
● Consider focussing on teaching intermediate-level listeners strategies: unlike the lower-intermediate listeners, these learners appear to benefit from the strategies less to compensate for text decoding deficiencies and more to develop sound mental models of texts. 