
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Comprehensibility, which is how easy or difficult it is for a listener to understand a second language speaker, is an important variable believed to determine communicative success. Interlocutors who do not struggle to understand each other are likely to have more effective communication. Therefore, researchers have investigated various dimensions of second language speech that contribute to making the speech more or less effortful to understand. For example, when speakers use a variety of vocabulary or grammar structures correctly or when they do not make many sound- or word-level pronunciation errors, their speech is judged more comprehensible by listeners. But what about speakers’ behaviour, particularly when they engage in communication with an interlocutor? Could such interaction behaviours as backchanneling (e.g., okay, yeah), nodding, or asking for elaboration (e.g., What do you mean?) also contribute to making speakers more or less comprehensible to their interlocutors? The researchers addressed this question by analyzing video recordings of 36 pairs of university-level second language speakers from a previously collected corpus, examining the relationship between the speakers’ interaction behaviours and their perceptions of each other’s comprehensibility. The researchers found that speakers’ own comprehensibility was enhanced when they nodded and encouraged their conversation partners to speak, but comprehensibility was reduced when speakers focused on correct language use (e.g., through searching for appropriate words). 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers sampled 36 pairs of university-level speakers from an existing video corpus of interactions where the speakers engaged in a 10-minute academic task summarizing research reports and discussing their opinions. 
● The speakers (with a mean age of 24), represented 20 language backgrounds, the largest being Mandarin, French, Arabic, and Hindi. However, in each pair of speakers, English was the only common language. 
● At the end of the task, each speaker evaluated how easily they understood their conversation partner using a 100-point scale, where 0 meant very difficult to understand and 100 meant very easy to understand. 
● To relate the speakers’ ratings of each other’s comprehensibility to their interaction behaviors, the researchers coded the video recordings and transcripts for frequencies of eight behaviors: providing distinct ideas, focusing on language accuracy, encouraging the partner to speak, responding to the partner’s comments, organizing or managing the task, nodding, backchanneling, and expressing positive emotion (e.g., through laughter). 
What the researchers found
 
● Second language speakers’ own comprehensibility was predicted positively by speakers’ nodding in response to their conversation partner’s speech and by their encouragement of the partner to speak through such phrases as What do you think? Do you agree? 
● In contrast, comprehensibility was predicted negatively by both conversation partners’ focus on language accuracy, which in this study generally involved searching for appropriate words to describe an idea. 
● As part of statistical analyses, the speakers’ interactional behaviors explained about 15–23% of their partners’ ratings of their own comprehensibility. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings should be considered preliminary because they represent an initial attempt to link interaction behaviours to comprehensibility, focusing on communication between university students in one academic task. 
● Considering that linguistic dimensions of second language speech, such as pronunciation accuracy, fluency, lexical sophistication, and grammar appropriateness, generally account for up to 85% in comprehensibility ratings, the obtained modest yet notable contribution of interaction behaviors to comprehensibility is noteworthy. 
● Future research might explore the extent to which focused instruction on good-speaker or good-listener behaviours in interaction might help second language speakers engage in more comprehensible and ultimately more successful communication. 
● Future work might also target language assessment contexts, where second language speakers are evaluated in interactive settings (e.g., IELTS), with the view of understanding how interaction behaviors contribute to such speaker assessments as comprehensibility, communicative adequacy, or overall proficiency. 