
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Pronunciation and word learning are challenging aspects of learning a foreign language. This study examined whether listening to an easy song could improve Chinese students’ pronunciation of new French words more than listening to speech. The study also compared just listening to the song to singing it. Listening to and singing the song equally helped the pronunciation of words, and all three approaches were equally beneficial for the learning of the meaning of words. 
What the researchers did
 
● In Experiment 1, we compared ‘listening to song’ to ‘listening to rhythmic speech’. 
● Participants were 50 Chinese high school and university students without any prior knowledge of French. 
● The aim of the session was to learn 14 French words for parts of the body and their pronunciation. 
● Participants were divided into two equal groups. First, in both groups, the words were taught via video: an instructor pointed at the body part while uttering the French word and the Chinese translation appeared on screen. Then, in the ‘listening to song’ group, participants watched a video three times of an instructor singing a song in French, while in the ‘listening to rhythmic speech’ group participants watched a video of the same instructor speaking the lyrics of the song rhythmically. In both groups, each time a target word was uttered, the instructor pointed to the corresponding body part. 
● Before and after the learning session, participants listened to and then repeated the 14 target words and also four short sentences in which four words of the song were embedded. Three French teachers evaluated the accentedness of this oral production (i.e., how far it was from target-like pronunciation). 
● After the learning session participants also completed two vocabulary recall tests. 
● In Experiment 2, we compared ‘listening to song’ to ‘singing a song’. 
● Participants were 58 additional Chinese high school and university students without any French knowledge. 
● The procedure was similar to that of Experiment 1, except that the ‘singing a song’ group listened to the song twice and sing it twice, whereas the ‘listening to song’ group listened to the song four times. 
What the researchers found
 
● Listening to song helped improve pronunciation of French words more than listening to rhythmic speech.                                                        
● Listening to song and singing a song equally helped to improve pronunciation of French words.                        
● For learning words, no advantage was found for listening to song versus rhythmic speech or for singing versus listening to song. 
● Imitation ability and phonological working memory influenced participants’ pronunciation scores. 
Things to consider
 
● For pronouncing words, singing and listening to songs both helped in the first stages of language learning. Using one over the other could be decided according to the learners’ characteristics and preferences.      
● For learning words, perhaps more repetition and/or additional activities may show some benefits of song. Materials and data: Materials are publicly available at https://www.iris-database.org 