
What this research was about and why it is important 
 It is estimated that about a quarter of the world’s population speaks some English. This trend requires re-evaluation of English Language Teaching (ELT) practices that should reflect the use of English for global communication in which multilingualism is the norm. However, the monolingual bias and ‘native speaker’ (NS) norms are still dominant in ELT practices around the world. English teachers’ attitudes towards English play an important role in the curriculum innovation process because they can act as change agents and shape learners’ language attitudes. This study explored teachers’ attitudes towards English conducted from the perspective of their multilingualism. The interview data revealed that although teachers were willing to teach English beyond the officially prescribed British/American English standards, there are social expectations and cultural perceptions of what it means to speak English that constrain teachers’ practices. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was conducted in Kazakhstan, a home to over 100 ethnic groups and two official languages: Kazakh and Russian, besides many minority languages. 
● In this officially bilingual country, there is social intolerance to mixing multiple languages in communication. 
● Interviews were conducted with 25 Kazakhstani teachers of English working at four universities in Kazakhstan. 
● All the participants lived and studied at least one year in either the USA or UK and returned home to continue teaching English. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers’ attitudes towards English are related to their attitudes to Kazakh and Russian. 
● How teachers perceive language (first language or English) influence their linguistic and professional behavior. 
● Teachers’ choice of any language (English, Russian, Kazakh) in class depends on whether they have ‘NS’ pronunciation in that language  
● Teachers are more likely to teach ‘NS’ norm-based English because of students’ expectations and officially ‘NS’ oriented ELT policy. 
Things to consider
 
● Language is an ideological object the use of which goes beyond linguistic matters. 
● Language attitudes dominant in multilingual society impact English teaching practices in classrooms. 
● Before implementing change in ELT curriculum, all the stakeholders’ perceptions should be examined. 
● Given that sociocultural factors might constrain multilingual practices, how can we support inclusive classrooms where students’ and teachers’ linguistic identities are valued? 