
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Mastering basic vocabulary is indispensable in learning another language. Teachers and learners often seek effective ways to learn new words. Research has shown that learning an unknown target word with known words enhances the retention of the unknown word’s meaning compared to learning the unknown word alone. Previous studies found that when learning unknown nouns, known adjectives and known verbs can serve as effective cues to enhance learning. The current study examined useful cues for learning unknown verbs by comparing verb (unknown) + noun (known) combinations to verb (unknown) + adverb (known) combinations. Additionally, we explored how students’ vocabulary size would affect known-and-unknown word combination learning in order to deepen our understanding of which students would benefit from combination learning. The results showed that known nouns were better cues for learning unknown verbs than known adverbs. Additionally, participants with a larger vocabulary size benefited more from combination learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● The 102 participants were Japanese students of English as a Foreign Language, aged 18-22. They were assigned to one of two learning conditions: 49 in a Verb-Noun group and 53 in a Verb-Adverb group. 
● All of the participants took a vocabulary size test to examine how many basic English words they knew. 
● All 18 target verbs were pseudo words replacing real English words (e.g., doost meaning write). Known cues were all basic English words. Using these words, unknown verb + known noun combinations (e.g., doost a letter) and unknown verb + known adverb combinations (e.g., doost well) were prepared for the Verb-Noun group and the Verb-Adverb group, respectively. 
● The participants in each group learned 18 two-word combinations consisting of the same unknown target verbs and different known cues (nouns or adverbs) while presenting them with the corresponding first language (L1 -Japanese) translations. The participants were instructed to remember the Japanese meanings of the target words as well as the combinations. 
● The participants were provided with a five-minute learning phase and two immediate recall posttests: a Single Word Test where they wrote down the L1 meaning for each target word, and a Combination Test where they wrote down the L1 meanings of the combinations. The same two tests were administered one week later. 
What the researchers found
 
● When learning was measured with the Combination Test, the Verb-Noun group yielded a significantly higher score on the immediate posttest (67% in the Verb-Noun group and 41% in the Verb-Adverb group) and in the delayed posttest (59% and 20%, respectively). 
● In contrast, the Single Word Test did not yield any meaningful difference in vocabulary gain between the groups, either on the immediate posttest (33% in the Verb-Noun group and 35% in the Verb-Adverb group) or on the delayed posttest (11% and 14%, respectively). 
● The Verb-Noun group showed a relatively gradual decline in score between the immediate and the delayed posttests, whereas the Verb-Adverb group showed a much sharper decline. 
● The participants with a larger vocabulary size tended to gain more vocabulary when measured with the Combination Test. 
Things to consider
 
● If an L2 learner studies a new verb in a known-and-unknown combination, a known noun would be a better cue than a known adverb. 
● An unknown verb + a known noun combination (e.g., write a letter) might provide learners with a clearer image about the target verb than an unknown verb + known adverb combination (e.g., write well). This could have helped learners retain and retrieve the meanings of the target verb. 
● Learners with a larger vocabulary size would see more benefit from two-word combination learning. 