
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Multilingual families often use language to preserve heritage culture in their children when placed in a dominant monolingual society. Previous research on the complex thoughts and challenges faced by multilingual children in their use of heritage language is minimal. The study recorded incidents of struggle with expectations of language usage and language identity formation in a young child. The child understood and negotiated his use of language ideology (language used in social worlds) and shared thoughts regarding his multilingual identity formation. What the researcher did This case study examines developing language ideologies of a child from ages 3 to 7 years, who is simultaneously acquiring two home languages of Korean and Farsi as well as English. The parent who is a research scholar made observational notes regarding the child’s understanding of the language ideology of his environment: 
● How the child chose to accept or reject the language ideology in order to gain the approval of the adults and peers around him. 
● Where the child saw himself in this interchange and how he thought of himself as a trilingual child. What the researcher found For struggling with a monolingual ideology: 
● Sought to match his use of language to the language philosophy of authority, be it the adult or institute. For example, he informed his mother that none of his multilingual peers spoke their heritage language in an English-only school setting. 
● Asked permission to reject his understanding of the language ideology of his environment. For example, while eating lunch at a U.S. supermarket with his family he asked his mother if he could speak his heritage language of Korean. 
● Expressed situationally relevant emotions of embarrassment and pride in his language skills. For establishing a multilingual identity: 
● Used his trilingual skills to relate with multilingual peers and “safe” monolingual adults. For example, he shared conversational Korean words with an English-speaking swim instructor. 
● Denounced bilingual peers who spoke English at his heritage language school. 
● Verbalized an imaginary future in which he is a multilingual adult and has a multilingual family. 
Things to consider
 The longitudinal case study showed that monolingual and bilingual ideologies were understood and communicated by a very young child. The internal conversation about accepting or rejecting the rules led him to feel different emotions. His interactions with adults, peers and institutions made him articulate thoughts about his future identity as a multilingual. 