
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research of learners’ motivation to study foreign languages has been scarce in Finland. What is more, often, learners’ motivation to study languages has been linked to learners’ view of themselves as language users in the future. In this study, we explored how learners see themselves as language users currently and the role that others play in creating this current self-image of a language user (the current second language (L2) self-concept). In a statistical analysis, we studied how much grades, parents, peers, and society predicted how good a language user the learners currently saw themselves as. We studied this separately for learners of English and languages other than English. Society grades predicted the view of themselves as language users the most in both groups. 
What the researchers did
 
● The data were collected in a large-scale E-questionnaire based on previous motivation questionnaires. 
● There were 1,206 responses from 15–16-year-old language learners, of which 709 were learning English, 258 German, 156 French, 43 Spanish, and 40 Russian. 
● Using statistical modelling, we found factors underlying items in each scale, that is, (a) learners’ current L2 self-concept, (b) motivation from parents, (c) motivation from peers, and (d) societal expectations. 
What the researchers found
 
● For both English learners and learners of languages other than English, grades and societal expectations related to the learners’ current view of themselves as language users the strongest, followed by motivation from friends and parents. 
● However, for languages other than English, the role of friends and parents was more pronounced than for learners of English. 
● Still, grades and societal expectations were the only two factors that explained learners’ current L2 concepts in the English group. For the learners of languages other than English, the role of friends was still relevant. Motivation from parents was not notable in either of the groups. 
Things to consider
 
● Grades explained students’ current view of themselves as language learners and users the most, which underscores the role that formal education plays in our perceptions of ourselves as learners and users of languages. This highlights the role of teachers in shaping our development, especially in regard to mediating our experiences of formal appraisals and the importance of supporting and encouraging students such that their view of themselves as language users is not hindered. 
● There was lack of motivation from parents in the languages other than English sample. However, the higher the support from parents was, the higher was students’ view of themselves as language users. Hence, we suggest that the role of parents is especially important when learners study languages other than English, the more so that learners perceive that society does not consider these languages as important. 
● Overall, we would like to underscore the importance of students’ current view of themselves as language users and the role that others play in shaping it. 
● We should note that we studied all languages other than English together, whereas each of them has its own history in Finland, so the picture could have been different should we have studied them separately. 