
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The Spanish verbs ser and estar (both meaning “to be”) pose a well-known learning challenge to classroom learners of Spanish. This challenge has sparked ongoing interest in research that seeks to explain how native English-speaking learners come to use them appropriately, and this research forms the basis of what we know about the acquisition of ser and estar. However, can we extend what we know about ser and estar acquisition to learners whose native language is very different from English? This study examined native Korean-speaking learners’ use of ser and estar with adjectives (e.g., bonito “pretty,” cansado “tired”) in two speaking tasks and compared them with native English-speaking learners who completed the same speaking tasks. While Korean-speaking learners omitted these verbs at a higher rate than English-speaking learners, both learner groups demonstrated similar learning trends such as overusing ser and increasing estar use as their experience learning Spanish increased. 
What the researchers did
 
● 66 native Korean-speaking learners were recruited from a South Korean university and 62 native English-speaking learners were recruited from a Midwestern university in the United States. At each university, the researcher recruited learners from four different levels of Spanish language courses (first, second, third, and fourth year). 
● Each learner completed two speaking tasks in Spanish (describing drawings from a picture book and an informal interview), two written grammar tests (one in Spanish and the other in English), and a written language background questionnaire. 
● The researcher analyzed the language produced by learners on the speaking tasks to determine whether ser, estar, or something else was used with adjectives. 
What the researchers found
 
● Omission of ser and estar was greater and lasted longer for Korean-speaking learners than English-speaking learners. 
● Both Korean- and English-speaking learners demonstrated overuse of ser, a well-known trend associated with acquiring Spanish ser and estar. 
● Both Korean- and English-speaking learners demonstrated evidence of learning by increasing their use of estar as their level increased. 
● Both Korean- and English-speaking learners used estar in similar ways, such as with adjectives that reflect a resulting state (e.g., abierto “open,” cansado “tired”) and for contexts whose interpretation is limited in time (e.g., ahora no estoy seguro “now I’m not sure”). 
Things to consider
 
● Although the learner groups in this study reflect two very different types of native languages, their acquisition of ser and estar revealed more similarities than differences. 
● The key difference between Korean- and English-speaking learners with respect to using ser and estar was the extent to which they omitted these verbs with adjectives: Omission lasted longer for the Korean-speaking learners. Omission is believed to last longer for Korean-speaking learners because the Korean language does not have a grammatical structure that is similar to [ser/estar + adjective]. 
● Future research is necessary to determine how more advanced Korean-speaking learners use ser and estar in Spanish. 