
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This article explores the potential of a specific research methodology called “netnography” and its ability to be used by language researchers who are interested in investigating different aspects of language learning and teaching in online environments (e.g., exploring language learning/teaching in forums such as Reddit, social networking sites like Facebook, blogs, and more). Specifically, the authors explain how this netnography research methodology has been used by researchers in other disciplines (e.g., marketing); they provide multiple examples of how it has recently been used by language researchers; and importantly, the authors discuss how netnography can be used in the future, along with considerations for those researchers who may be interested in adopting it. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers first investigated how netnography has previously been used in other fields such as marketing, tourism, consumer behavior research, and others. 
● The authors then found three exemplary netnographies in the area of second language research, and they summarize these netnographies for the reader. 
● After discussing key netnographies in second language research, the authors highlight specific features related to how researchers typically conduct netnographies (e.g., collecting longitudinal data such as online observations, performing interviews, collecting snapshots of online users’ conversations and interactions, and more). 
● The researchers also provide an in-depth example of one netnography (i.e., Isbell, 2018), showing how all of these data sources can be used to provide different types of insights into language learning in online spaces. 
● Finally, the authors discuss best practices and provide tips and advice for people who may be interested in conducting a netnography in the future. 
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers show how netnography has served as a powerful research methodology in other fields for illuminating various consumer behaviors (e.g., how/why consumers of different brands interact, think, and make certain decisions). 
● Crucially, by illustrating example studies in the area of second language research, the authors show how netnography has the potential to reveal insights into language learning and teaching; however, it has tended to be underutilized in the field. 
● The researchers discuss important considerations for adopting netnography in future studies, such as: how to gain access to different online communities; ethical considerations involved in collecting and reporting data (e.g., what to do in order to protect participants’ identities since the information is often publicly available online; and what types of questions future researchers might wish to explore in their studies). 
Things to consider
 
● Because netnography is a qualitative research methodology that takes considerable time to conduct (i.e., studies are longitudinal and require observations over an extended period of time), this approach has both strengths and limitations that researchers will want to consider prior to using. 
● Prior to conducting a netnography, researchers need to first familiarize themselves with (a) netnography as a methodology, and also (b) the specific online community they wish to investigate; thus, this often requires researchers to spend time prior to the study both preparing and doing exploratory work. 
● Because few netnographies have been conducted in the area second language research, interested individuals are encouraged to examine/read netnographies from other fields. 
● Finally, because netnography has been used relatively infrequently in second language research, the combination of this fact plus the availability of numerous online language learning/teaching communities make netnography a fruitful approach for future research. 