
What this research was about and why it is important 
 English medium instruction (EMI) has become a widely adopted institutional response to the growing forces of globalization in the twenty-first century. However, behind the enthusiasm of expanding the provision of EMI, little research has been conducted to explore to what extent EMI addresses the new demands of an increasingly multilingual student body. Building on the concept of linguistically responsive instruction (LRI), this study examined 1) the forms of instruction that are linguistically responsive in higher education EMI classrooms, and 2) the affordances and constraints of such instruction. The findings showed that while some practices in EMI settings helped resolve immediate comprehension issues and low participation in classroom interactions, they were not enough to respond to students’ linguistic and academic needs. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study was situated in the higher education EMI context in Taiwan. 
● In Taiwan, Chinese has long been the primary language of instruction at all stages of education, but in recent years a number of policies have been introduced to promote EMI in higher education settings. 
● The data for this study was taken from a larger project that looked into different instructional outcomes of EMI. 
● The study adopted a multiple case study design. Each case was “a faculty profile”. There were in total 17 faculty profiles collected that spanned across a range of disciplines. 
● Data collection methods included interviews with the lecturers and classroom observations. 
What the researchers found
 
● LRI was interpreted and practiced in a variety of ways. 
● The profiles of three lecturers and the classes they taught were selected for in-depth illustration. The profiles revealed three broad approaches to LRI: technical, facilitative, and sociocultural. 
● The most common approach was technical LRI as the lecturers frequently code-switched in class, supplied students with glossaries, and explained grammatical structure of sentences to the students. Facilitative LRI was identified when lecturers used multimedia or activities to encourage participation. Sociocultural LRI was recognized when lecturers adjusted the questions or the examples they gave to connect with their students’ language backgrounds. 
● The three approaches to LRI helped alleviate immediate concerns related to lecture comprehension and classroom participation. In some situations, the need to be linguistically sensitive further opened up new pedagogical possibilities and moments for intercultural exchange. 
● However, due to students’ restricted academic English proficiency, there were limitations as to what these approaches could ultimately achieve. Specifically, university lecturers often found themselves attending to too many language issues in their content-focused classrooms, which took away time and attention from the teaching of disciplinary knowledge. 
Things to consider
 
● An uncritical promotion of EMI could create serious problems to the functions of higher education: while EMI was intended as “English-enhanced instruction” (developing both language and content in the same classroom space), it faced the risk of turning into “English without instruction” (learning some English but not much disciplinary knowledge). 
● As the LRI approaches were not enough to help students systematically build up their academic and disciplinary literacies for higher order engagement, facilitating linguistically responsive practices beyond the classroom is necessary (e.g., expanding the “I” in LRI to include policy-making and curriculum-planning). 