
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Textbooks are often central to English as a Foreign Language (EFL) classrooms and have a key role in determining what is taught to students. Recent research has emphasized the importance of intentional vocabulary learning for language learners; however, this does not seem to be reflected in course materials or in teacher attitudes towards vocabulary. The researchers in this study interviewed eight materials developers to learn about their opinions on teaching materials and vocabulary, as well as their thoughts on vocabulary in EFL textbooks. The information gathered from these interviews showed that materials developers rely mostly on their own intuition for vocabulary and focus on providing engaging texts for the students. The materials developers consider vocabulary lists as a tool to aid in reading comprehension rather than important for vocabulary learning. The researchers concluded that current vocabulary research findings have little to no impact on materials developers’ decisions about vocabulary. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers conducted semi-structured interviews with eight experienced materials developers. The interview questions encouraged the materials developers to talk about their processes and opinions on materials developing and the role of vocabulary in their materials. 
● The interviews were transcribed and approved by the materials developers, and then analyzed for trends through a content analysis. 
● Trends in the interview responses were categorized into three groups of principles (vocabulary development, vocabulary content, and word list) that guided the materials developers in their creation of EFL materials. 
What the researchers found
 
● All the materials developers interviewed shared the principle of creating an engaging text as their main objective. Developers ensure this through direct interaction with the teachers and students who will use their materials. 
● Developers believed that an engaging text was key to the text’s role in facilitating language learning. This led developers to view an engaging text as more important than intentional grammar or vocabulary input. 
● Developers include word lists mainly because the teachers demand word lists, not because they see them as useful to language learners. 
● The vocabulary terms in the materials come second to the text content and the text content should contain minimal unfamiliar words, so that the text is comprehensible and easy to work with. 
Things to consider
 
● The small sample size of this study may prevent the results from being easily generalized to other contexts. 
● More studies of materials developers’ vocabulary beliefs need to be conducted. 