
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Though post-project reports outline the complexities associated with writing English language teaching (ELT) textbooks, few detail how authors reach compromise during ongoing textbook development to get their books published. To address the gap, this study concentrated on the means by which two skilled ELT textbook writers balanced competing priorities to effect compromise by focusing on data collected while they wrote textbook material. It found that the authors incorporated repetition and variety into chapter layouts and content and used practical reasoning when deciding whether to include texts created for language teaching or those designed for other purposes in their books. The study also found that one of the writers integrated dialogue and monologue texts into his book after reaching compromise with his project partners, while the other balanced her book’s learning and teaching aims with her publisher’s length, design, and deadline conditions. This research may help to inform beginning textbook writer’s efforts and encourage teachers to consider how authors achieve the balances reflected in textbook content during textbook evaluation. What the researcher did 
● The study used data collected from two ELT authors, Textbook Writer One (TW1) and Textbook Writer Two (TW2), as they wrote textbook content. TW1 co-wrote a textbook for European adults with learning difficulties, and TW2 composed a book for secondary school learners in a specific African country. 
● In terms of experience, TW1 had worked on a number of international textbook development projects during the five years preceding data collection, while TW2 had spent eight years composing textbooks for a global publishing company. Both participants had also worked as English language teachers and teacher trainers.  
● Most of the data came from asking the participants to think aloud as they wrote textbook content. The authors were also interviewed about their textbook writing projects and experiences before and after they wrote chapters. In addition, TW1 recalled aloud the thoughts that occurred to him after writing one section of textbook material, and TW2 shared plans for her textbook project in a written diary entry. All of these data were transcribed into text.  
● The researcher repeatedly read through the data transcripts while looking for noticeable connections and identified the themes of compromises and balances in the authors’ work. What the researcher found 
● The participants produced textbook chapters with varied content in order to maintain learners’ interest, but they also revisited language items to encourage their development and repeated layout features so that learners and teachers could confidently navigate the chapters. 
● Both authors incorporated self-written texts into their books that were modelled on writings and conversations that might be found outside of a language classroom. 
● TW1 negotiated a compromise with his project partners to work dialogue and monologue texts into his book. 
● TW2 kept textbook teaching and learning goals in mind while adhering to her publisher’s length, design, and deadline requirements. 
Things to consider
 
● This study explained how two authors effected compromises to manage the complexities they met while writing ELT textbook chapters and offered a detailed look at experienced textbook writers in action. It also revealed the considerable time and effort they invested in their craft.  
● The research might be instructive for those new to textbook writing who want to know more about what the work entails. It may also encourage English language teachers involved in textbook evaluation to think carefully about how authors balance various considerations when producing chapters.   
● Further research is needed to uncover the full range of complexities involved in ELT textbook writing, how authors handle these, and how textbook users react to their decisions. 