
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The teaching of foreign languages in primary school has experienced a worldwide revolution in the past decades with the implementation of content and language integrated learning (CLIL) lessons. This includes a number of immersion schools where a regional language is used as the medium of instruction. However, to date, no studies have examined how the implementation of CLIL in regional language immersion schools might affect pupils’ motivation towards the foreign and regional language. To address this gap, this study compared the motivation of two groups of Spanish pupils who received different amounts and types of exposure to a foreign language (English) in four Basque (regional language)-immersion schools in the community of Navarre (Spain). In one group English was taught via English lessons exclusively (non-CLIL group) and, in the other, the pupils also received CLIL lessons (CLIL group). Results showed that both groups (CLIL and non-CLIL) held positive motivational levels towards both languages. However, the CLIL learners displayed a more positive attitude towards English and a slightly lower instrumental motivation towards Basque than the non-CLIL group. This, in turn, suggests that increasing the amount of exposure to the FL via CLIL lessons might improve the motivation towards English but could decrease the instrumental motivation (i.e., how useful they believe that language will be in their lives) towards the regional language. Shedding light on this issue was useful to inform the many immersion schools with regional languages and to address a research gap in second language motivation research. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were two groups of Spanish pupils (N= 399) in four Basque-immersion schools. Pupils (N=230) in two schools (non-CLIL schools) were taught English as a subject exclusively (i.e., “English language”). Pupils (N=169) in the other two schools (CLIL schools) were taught English as a subject and also used English as the vehicular language to teach content subjects (e.g., science in English). 
● A motivation questionnaire was designed. The questionnaire aimed to gather pupils’ motivation towards the regional language (Basque) and the foreign language (English). 
● The pupils in the two final years of Primary Education (aged 11-12) of the selected schools were asked to complete the questionnaires online during some of their school sessions and under the supervision of their teachers. 
● The results of the questionnaires were analyzed statistically. The results from the CLIL schools were compared to the results of the non-CLIL schools. 
What the researchers found
 
● The motivation of the pupils towards English and Basque was high. 
● CLIL learners had a more positive attitude towards English than the non-CLIL learners. 
● CLIL learners had a slightly lower motivation towards Basque than non-CLIL learners, reflected in their lower perception of Basque as useful for their future. 
Things to consider
 
● Our study highlights how different school programs can shape motivation towards language learning. Increasing exposure to the foreign language (English) seems to improve motivation towards it at the expense of lowering motivational levels towards the regional language (Basque). 
● Differences in motivation towards the English were more numerous and significant, and, in general terms, revealed higher motivational levels for the CLIL group. 
● Differences in motivation towards the regional language were more limited and mainly hinged on the learners’ perception of the usefulness of Basque in their future professional life. Possibly the lower importance attributed to the regional language might have been overshadowed by the instrumental power of English, frequently associated with concepts such as necessity, utility, advantage or power in this globalized world (Ushioda, 2017). 