
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study delved into identity (re)construction of three Iranian in-service English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teachers over a period of four years, charting their professional identity development in the face of workplace conflicts and challenges. Such investigation is important since language teacher identity is an indispensable part of teachers' development and determines how language teaching plays out. In addition, exploring language teacher identity provides teacher educators with new insights in how to treat student teachers and how to prepare them for future conflicts and challenges, enabling teachers to seek solutions in times of difficulty, rather than considering leaving their profession as the only solution. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers used an activity theoretic lens to examine the identity-oriented decisions of the participants, formed as they faced challenges in the workplace environment. 
● Data were collected through narrative inquiry; more specifically, through journals, semi-structured interviews, and lesson plans, allowing the researchers to inspect links between participants' knowledge, context, and identity. 
● The collected data were thematically analyzed for broad themes, representing the participants' identity (re)construction in the face of challenging situations. 
What the researchers found
 
● Thematic analysis of the data revealed conflicts between various parts of Activity Theory; for example, between division of labor and groups, or between individuals or groups and goals, to name a few. 
● Conflicts within the community led to fluctuations among the participants as well as discrepancies between their imagined and practiced identities, rooted in dissociations between their personal ideologies and institutional rules and regulations enforced upon them. 
● Moving along their own trajectories, the participants made unique decisions in keeping with their newly developed identities. 
● This study recognized identity as dynamic, evolving, fluid, never-ending, and context-sensitive. 
Things to consider
 
● If progress in teachers' development and performance is to be achieved, teachers need to be provided with opportunities to experiment with and explore their unique and diverse identities. This objective can be met through unpacking challenges and complexities of language teachers' professional identity (re)construction and fluctuations genuinely voiced by the teachers themselves. 
● The study showed the strong influence of the teaching context on EFL teachers' dispositions, practices, and identities, necessitating more attention from authorities in leadership positions.  
● The author also suggest that teachers require differential options for professional performance and activities rather than being restricted to a limited set of rules, forcing them to adhere to prescribed curricula and steering motivation, innovation, and enthusiasm away from them. 
● The current study was limited to the participants' perceptions and interpretations, lacking the attitudes of such important other people such as supervisors and language institutes' authorities. Results must therefore be approached with caution. 
● Given the small number of participants, the findings of this study might be of little relevance in understanding EFL teachers' professional identity development in other contexts. 
● Notwithstanding such limitations, given the scarcity of research on Iranian EFL teachers' identity fluctuations and conflicts, especially through the lens of Activity Theory, this study provides new knowledge on professional identity development of EFL teachers aimed at filling the gap on the almost exclusive focus on pre-service teachers in the field of teacher identity. 