What this study was about and why it is important Existing research has established captions as effective second-language (L2) or foreign language (FL) listening comprehension aids. However, due to the transient nature of captions, not all learners are capable of attending to captions in all cases. Previous research has posited that to leverage the impact of technologies in learning and instruction, a better understanding of the interplay between technology and cognition is warranted. In this vein, the current study set out to investigate the effects of four different caption modes (full vs. partial vs. real-time vs. control) on the listening comprehension of 95 high-intermediate Taiwanese EFL learners with different caption reliance (i.e., more- vs. less-caption-reliant). 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 122 students of English as a foreign language, aged between 18 and 22. They all had similar language learning background and had similar English proficiency, as gleaned from their performance on major language proficiency tests such as TOEFL. 
● The learners took a caption reliance test (CRT), which took approximately twenty minutes to complete, and then were categorized into two different types of learners (more- vs. less-caption-reliant). 
● One week after the CRT test, the participants with different caption reliance were invited to participate in an eleven-minute video viewing session under the four caption conditions, i.e., no, full, partial, and real-time captioning. Immediately after viewing the TED video, the learners took a listening comprehension test, which took approximately ten minutes to complete. 
● After taking a short break, the experiment concluded with a post-study questionnaire and interview, which lasted roughly 15 minutes. 
● To determine the desirable caption display for L2 learners with different caption reliance, more- vs. less-caption-reliant learners’ comprehension performances under the four captioning conditions were compared. 
● 27 participants’ data were excluded from the final analysis because throughout a (post-study) interview, the researchers noticed that these 27 people were very familiar with the selected video prior to the study and thus might have approached the video viewing task with strategies that were not characteristic of normal video viewing behaviors. As a result, the analysis was mainly based on the data collected from 95 people. 
What the researchers found
 
● The results showed no significant difference between the participants’ listening comprehension outcomes under the four caption conditions when their caption reliance was not considered. 
● However, when caption reliance was considered, the differences among the four caption conditions became salient, which was suggestive of the selective effect of captions on L2 learners with different caption reliance. While less-caption-reliant L2 learners had the best listening comprehension outcome under the partial caption condition and the worst under the full caption condition, more-caption-reliant L2 learners exhibited the best performance under the full caption condition yet the worst under the partial caption condition. 
Things to consider
 
● The finding underscores the importance of considering L2 learners’ processing profiles when utilizing captioned videos as multimodal instructional/learning materials and speaks to the need of utilizing differentiated video materials for optimal listening outcomes.   