
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The success of dual language immersion (DLI – where instruction is given in more than one language) programs is measured by students’ academic achievement in core subjects and proficiency in English and a DLI partner language, e.g., Chinese, French or Spanish. As DLI programs have grown in popularity over the past decade, teachers, parents, and school administrators have turned their attention to questions of scalability and sustainability. How effective are programs implemented on a large scale (e.g., statewide) in producing desired outcomes, including high levels of proficiency in a DLI partner language? Does DLI students’ proficiency continue to grow once they reach middle (age 11-14) and high (age 14-18) school grades? This study investigated to what extent proficiency gains of students in a state-wide DLI program in Chinese, French, Spanish, and Portuguese sustained into the secondary level and during a period of program expansion. Results show that students’ proficiency continued to develop in middle and high school grades, albeit at a slower pace than at the elementary level, and that the program met their proficiency benchmarks during a substantial increase in enrollment.  
What the researchers did
 
● 224 elementary and secondary schools were included in this study. Students’ proficiency data were gathered from state-wide assessments administered yearly between the 2013-2014 and the 2018-2019 academic year. The state administers the ACTFL Assessment of Performance toward Proficiency in Languages (AAPPL) to all DLI students starting in Grade 3 (age 8-9). 
● Cohorts of DLI students were tracked longitudinally over three testing years. 
● Speaking proficiency data were available for students in Grades 3 (age 8-9), 5 (age 10-11) and 7 (age 12-13); listening, reading and writing were available for Grades 4 (age 9-10), 8 (age 13-14) and 9 (age 15-16). 
● 2014-2015 program-wide testing data of Chinese, French and Spanish in Grades 3 and 4 were compared to 2018-2019 data in order to determine whether students’ performance had changed during program expansion. 
● Data was also gathered on proficiency growth from Grade 8 to 9 and achievement of performance benchmarks. 
What the researchers found
 
● Proficiency in speaking showed consistent growth from grade 3, to 5, to 7 and approached the top of the Intermediate- Mid range in Grade 7. 
● Proficiency in listening, reading, and writing also grew consistently and reached or approached Intermediate High by ninth grade. The highest levels were typically reached in listening. 
● The results show that the majority of students who had not scored at the top of the testing scale in grade 8 improved their proficiency in all four skills between eighth and ninth grade. 
● The majority of students in French, Chinese and Spanish met the state’s benchmarks for performance on the AAPPL assessments in grade 9. 
● Despite significant enrollment increases between 2014-2015 and 2018-2019, proficiency attainment was similar at the two testing points except in fourth-grade reading, where 2018-2019 results were slightly lower. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that DLI students can sustain proficiency growth from elementary through middle school and into high school, but that the rate of growth and the ultimate level of proficiency attained varies from language to language.  
● In the productive skills, speaking and writing, Chinese students’ proficiency grows at a slower pace than in French and Spanish. This finding emphasizes the need for benchmarking by skill and also the need to differentiate between alphabetic and non-alphabetic languages.  
● The results indicate that proficiency levels in the upper range of Intermediate and into Advanced are achievable by grade 9 in well-articulated programs. 
● These findings may provide some evidence that program scale-up did not dilute the quality of the DLI program, but that instead, students in all languages may have benefitted from the program’s maturation. 