
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Speakers who claim that they care about the purity of their language often prefer to use native vocabulary rather than words borrowed from other languages. The aim of our study was to find out whether the same speakers prefer to use nativized rather than non-nativized borrowings to name new, foreign concepts. As there are several nativization strategies that conceal the foreignness of a borrowing, in an online survey we asked speakers of Polish to choose among 5 possible borrowing strategies, i.e. to choose among native- and foreign-looking words to name new phenomena. The words to choose from were all invented for the purpose of the study. The speakers were also asked to assess their attitude to the purity of their language. The choices of our respondents indicated their preferences of how foreign terms should be dealt with in the recipient language. Although generally the foreign-looking words were chosen most often as the best names, the study showed that Poles who openly declare that they care about the purity of their language prefer newly-coined native synonyms to foreign words. Also, older speakers and those who do not know English or do not speak it well prefer native-looking replacement words to English borrowings. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 213 Polish native speakers aged 25-62. 
● They read 10 scenarios, which each described a fictitious newly-invented object/phenomenon, and picked the best name for it out of the 5 given names that were all invented specifically for the study. 
● In each set, the 5 names represented different borrowing strategies and ranged from foreign-looking (e.g. bouteillage) to native-looking (e.g. sztuka szkła) words; they were shown at random order. 
● Participants were also asked whether and how much they care about the purity of their language, and about their age, education and knowledge of foreign languages. 
● Before the survey proper, we carried out a pre-survey in which the participants were asked to choose the best of the several possible invented native-looking words. 
What the researchers found
 
● It was either the foreign-looking words that were chosen as the best names (6/10 scenarios) or the native-looking words (4/10 scenarios). 
● The half-native/half-foreign words were never picked as the best names. 
● Respondents who declared much care about the purity of their language tended not to choose foreign-looking words as the best names but did not necessarily picked the native-looking names. 
● Young people and those who declared they knew English well preferred foreign-looking words. Neither level of education or gender turned out to influence the results. 
Things to consider
 
● Polish speakers make non-random vocabulary choices: those that care about their language choose native-looking words to name new phenomena. The relation between declarative purism and preference for a particular borrowing strategy was observed despite our efforts to hide the specific aim of the survey from the participants. Also, speakers were consistent in their choices of either nativized or non-nativized words. 
● Puristic attitudes among Poles are not intense, as foreign-looking words were chosen by our respondents most often as the best names. This may be due to the prestige motive, as words borrowed from a prestigious language have a positive persuasive value and promise a higher status or a better quality. 
● Better-educated Polish speakers had a more positive attitude to foreign-looking words. This may result from exposition to foreign words and foreign cultures, which may increase their liking for foreign terms. 
● The innovative feature of the study was the use of invented words, which was done to avoid word frequency influencing the results. This, however, may increase the risk of the participants behaving differently than in real-life situations. 
● A possible future variant of this study might involve real borrowings which could be supplemented with invented native-looking and half-native/half-foreign replacements. This mixed strategy would make the respondents’ task more natural and lessen the risks involved in our study. 