
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Although a high number of international students choose to study in the U.S., making up roughly 5.5% of the entire university student population, universities still mostly use curriculum and instruction that are based on a monolingual population. Many international students are speakers of English as an additional language and are admitted based on their performance on language proficiency test scores (for instance the TOEFL exam), which are not necessarily good measures of students’ ability to participate fully in their classes. Previous research has shown that the current system has largely failed to accommodate the particular needs of linguistically diverse international students (LDISs). These needs include further development of their academic language proficiency through linguistically responsive instruction and assistance with navigating multicultural perspectives and an unfamiliar educational system. In order to understand the current situation and provide evidence-based practical recommendations for improvement, this study examines current university faculty members’ and their institutions’ readiness to support LDISs. 
What the researchers did
 
● 24 faculty members, from universities with different profiles throughout different regions of the U.S., were interviewed about their understandings of linguistically responsive instruction, instructional practices, expectations of LDISs, perception of the educational needs of LDISs, and professional development experiences and needs.  
● For institutional data, faculty members discussed their institutions’ services for international students; publicly available data was also collected about the institutions. 
● Interview and institutional data were analyzed for common themes and individual experiences. 
What the researchers found
 
● The findings indicate a lack of faculty and institutional readiness to support LDISs with some exceptions. 
● Faculty members acknowledged a lack of personal/professional knowledge and skills about linguistically and culturally responsive education, institutional support, and to some degree, ability to correctly identify instructional strategies in addressing the needs of linguistically diverse students. 
● Most faculty has asset-based perspectives about their students; they did not consider language as a problem to fix, but rather focusing on linguistic and cultural assets that students bring with them. 
● Many faculty focused on helping students develop listening and speaking skills as well as writing skills in the classroom, acknowledging the important role of language in their success. 
● Most faculty did not think their institutions had sufficient support systems in place to support LDISs or to help them with professional development to provide instruction. Individual faculty had to lead efforts on their own. 
Things to consider
 
● Institutions need to provide more supports for LDISs, including for language, culture, and socio-emotional needs, such as counseling services and writing centers that have trained staff to help linguistically and culturally diverse students. 
● Faculty need more professional development opportunities to learn about linguistically responsive instruction. This should be provided at the university, college, and department levels.  
● All faculty participants indicated what an asset it was to have international students in their classes. International students make large contributions to universities, bringing their rich linguistic and cross-cultural knowledge and experiences. 
● Universities have an ethnical responsibility to support LDISs and the faculty who teach them. This responsibility is even more important today considering recent diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives. 