What this study was about and why it is important Foreign language teachers often wonder how to deal with linguistically diverse classrooms, in particular with students who know several languages before they start learning a foreign language at school. Should they actively include these languages in their teaching methodology, or should they rather stick to the target language only? Previous research has shown that providing reference to languages other than the target language – a teaching approach called plurilingual teaching – can help with learning words. Does this approach also support learning grammar? This study investigated how the grammatical knowledge of primary school students learning English as a foreign language develops when they receive plurilingual teaching compared to regular English-only teaching. It also compared if it makes a difference whether the grammar of the students’ other languages differs from or is similar to English grammar. The results suggest that plurilingual teaching has advantages when the majority language differs from the foreign language, yet not when the grammar is comparable across languages. 
What the researchers did
 
● They tested more than 200 students aged 9 – 10 from four German primary schools who had started learning English as a foreign language in 3rd grade. 
● The learners’ dominant language was German, but at least 33% of students in each class also spoke one of 15 other heritage languages, such as Arabic, Russian, and Turkish, at home. 
● The classes were divided into a plurilingual teaching group and an English-only teaching group. 
● In two 45-minute English lessons, all students learned how to form wh-questions in (for example, Who brings the cake?) and how to form sentences in passive voice (for example, The cat is kissed by the dog). 
● While English passives are quite similar to those in other languages, the word order of English wh-questions is 
● 
● different from German. In the plurilingual teaching group, the students explored the word order of wh-questions and passive sentences in English by comparing it to other languages. In the English-only group, all tasks focused on English. In the lessons before and after, students took a picture-based test assessing their comprehension of English wh-questions, passive sentences and grammatically related constructions. 
What the researchers found
 
● All students improved their grammar skills, although these remained at a rather low level. 
● The plurilingual teaching group improved more than the English-only group on wh-questions, but the groups performed equally better on passives. 
● Students did not transfer the newly gained grammatical knowledge to grammatically related constructions in any group. 
● Students who knew a language other than German and students who only knew German benefitted equally from the plurilingual teaching. 
Things to consider
 
● Including comparisons with other languages can support grammar learning by increasing learners’ awareness of similarities and differences between their languages. 
● Such plurilingual teaching is suitable for all foreign language learners, irrespective of which or how many other languages they know. 
● Foreign language learners – especially at primary-school age – need time, guidance and practice with comparative language activities to make the most of plurilingual teaching.  