
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Anyone learning a new language must acquire an extensive vocabulary to develop a proficient command of that language. Therefore, second language (L2) teachers must choose language activities that effectively increase students’ vocabulary. Laufer and Hulstijn's (2001) Involvement Load Hypothesis (ILH) is a framework that can serve as a guide with which teachers can select activities that are proposed to be effective for incidental vocabulary learning. The ILH claims that incidental L2 vocabulary learning is conditional on three factors: need (the necessity to understand or use a word), search (the act of looking for information about a word), and evaluation (the comparison of information about word meanings or forms or use of words in a new context). The level of presence of these components within an activity is called Involvement Load (IL), and the ILH predicts that language activities with higher ILs lead to greater vocabulary learning gains than activities with lower ILs. Many studies have tested how accurately the ILH predicts the relative effectiveness of activities on vocabulary learning. However, these research results have never been systematically summarized. To examine the extent to which the ILH accurately predicts L2 incidental vocabulary learning and examine how the components of the ILH and other factors influence learning, the present study meta-analyzed the results of 42 studies that tested the prediction of the ILH. The results showed that the ILH significantly predicted learning gains. However, each ILH component contributed to learning differently. Also, other factors were found to influence learning, such as the aspect of word knowledge tested and frequency of exposure to the word. 
What the researchers did
 
● Through a comprehensive search of previous research, the researchers found 42 studies that had tested the predictions of the ILH and that met their selection criteria. 
● The researchers analyzed 398 posttest scores reported by the studies to explore (1) the extent to which ILH predicts incidental vocabulary learning, (2) the relative effects of the three components of the ILH (need, search, evaluation) on learning, and (3) the influence of other factors moderating learning gains (e.g., time on task, frequency, aspects of vocabulary knowledge). 
What the researchers found
 
● The ILH significantly predicted learning, with a clear positive correlation between the IL of activities and learning. 
● The predictive ability of the ILH was, however, limited: ILH explained just 15.0% and 5.1% of the variance in effect sizes on immediate and delayed posttests of vocabulary knowledge, respectively. 
● Each component of the ILH was found to contribute differently to learning. The evaluation component contributed to the greatest amount of learning, followed by need. Interestingly, search was not found to contribute to learning. 
● Moderator analyses revealed that IL had a greater impact on learning gains than time on task: Although time on task was positively correlated with learning gains, this trend disappeared when IL was controlled. However, a positive correlation between IL and time on task suggested that a task taking longer was mainly due to a greater IL. 
● The frequency of use/encounters with words positively contributed to learning on immediate posttests; the frequency of encounters affected learning gains independently (regardless) of IL. 
● The aspect of vocabulary knowledge measured (i.e., the type of test used) influenced findings. On delayed posttests, the influence of IL was strongest for (a) knowledge of word form, followed by (b) form–meaning recognition (selecting the right word), (c) form–meaning recall (producing the new word), and (d) using the word, in that order. 
● Learners’ L2 proficiency did not seem to influence the patterns of findings. 
Things to consider
 
● The results revealed some potential to enhance the usefulness and accuracy of the ILH in predicting learning, such as (a) considering the weights of the individual components of the ILH and (b) adding other variables such as frequency and how vocabulary knowledge was measured. 
● The study also revealed some relatively under-examined factors can influence learning outcomes (e.g., different types of ‘need’ components, and frequency of exposure), suggesting future studies could consider these factors. 