
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Second language (L2) learners need to know a large number of words to effectively deal with different situations in their future language use. However, explicitly teaching all of these words within the classroom may be too daunting a task. Therefore, it is essential to identify sources of L2 input from which words can be learned incidentally. Academic lectures are potential sources of vocabulary learning for L2 learners studying at universities where English is the medium of instruction, as well as those in English for Academic Purposes (EAP) programs. Topic-related vocabulary is likely to occur frequently in academic texts, and academic speech consists of a reasonable proportion of frequently occurring sequences of words. However, no intervention studies have explored the potential for learning single words and collocations through viewing an academic lecture. To address this gap, this experimental study measured EAP learners’ incidental learning of 50 single words and 19 collocations through watching an unmodified academic lecture. Results show that academic lectures are potential sources for learning of both single words and collocations. This is meaningful given the limited resources for L2 learners to learn specialized vocabulary and that collocations are crucial for reaching a high level of language proficiency but they are difficult to learn. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher conducted an experiment in three consecutive weeks with 55 EAP learners in China: one experimental group (n=28) and one control group (n=27) 
● A two-component test was created to measure the participants’ knowledge of 50 single words at the meaning recall level and 19 collocations at the form recognition level. This test was used before the lecture, immediately after the lecture, and sometime after the lecture. 
● In the first week of the experiment, both groups completed the test. 
● After a week, the experimental group saw the video of an academic lecture which contained the 50 target words and 19 target collocations. Immediately after the lecture, the participants completed the comprehension test and the vocabulary test. The control group did not watch the lecture, but also completed the same vocabulary test as the experimental group. 
● After another week, both groups took the vocabulary test again. 
What the researchers found
 
● Viewing the lecture led to learning gains of single words at the meaning recall level (4.07 out of 50 words) and collocations at the form recognition level (4.68 out of 19 collocations). 
● How many times a word or collocation appeared in the lecture seemed to contribute to the learning of single words at the meaning recall level, but not the learning of collocations at the form recognition level. 
● Prior knowledge of general vocabulary appeared to make no meaningful contribution to the learning of single words at the meaning recall level and collocations at the form recognition level. 
Things to consider
 
● This study found that only viewing a single academic lecture could lead to learning of single words at the meaning recall level and collocations at the form recognition level. This is encouraging because (a) collocations are crucial for reaching a high level of language proficiency but they are difficult to learn, and (b) in many EAP courses, there is a need for students to understand academic lectures in their subsequent academic study, but resources to help students develop knowledge of academic spoken vocabulary are very limited and teachers do not have sufficient subject-specific knowledge and time to explicitly teach specialized vocabulary. 
● This study found that frequency was likely to play a significant role in incidental vocabulary learning, or at least in the case of single words. Therefore, EAP teachers should provide opportunities for students to repeatedly encounter vocabulary in academic lectures. 
● This study revealed that prior knowledge of general vocabulary did not have a significant effect on incidental vocabulary learning through viewing an academic lecture. Therefore, teachers should not assume that a good knowledge of general vocabulary is sufficient for students to deal with academic spoken English. Apart from helping students learn new vocabulary, it is equally important to help them acquire specialized meanings of general vocabulary. Viewing academic lectures is an excellent way to raise students’ awareness of specialized meanings because vocabulary is used in subject-specific contexts. 