
What this research was about and why it is important 
 We do not yet have a good understanding of the strength of relationships in skills (e.g., listening, writing) across the first (L1) and second (L2) languages. Three competing theories make different predictions about the strength of relationships between L1 and L2 skills: (1) The ‘Developmental Linguistic Interdependence’ hypothesis predicts that discourse comprehension requires advanced vocabulary, understanding of word relationships, paraphrasing, and reasoning, which develop in similar ways and are related across the L1 and L2; (2) The ‘Interdependence Continuum hypothesis’ predicts that discourse comprehension and, probably, sentence comprehension are too challenging for L2 learners to permit substantial inter-language association; (3) the ‘Language Independence’ hypothesis predicts that discourse comprehension is language-independent and can be applied across different languages. This study examined these predictions in relation to two types of listening comprehension (i.e., comprehension at sentence level and at discourse level), among L1 Turkish-speaking children who started L2 Dutch at preschool. Positive associations between L1 and L2 listening comprehension (at sentence and discourse levels) were found at each testing time (in preschool and in first grade). However, L1 sentence comprehension at preschool did not predict L2 discourse comprehension a year or two later. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers tested 75 L1 Turkish children of an immigrant background in Dutch-medium schools at preschool and then again after one or two years at the start of first grade. 
● They tested L1 and L2 listening comprehension at sentence level in preschool and discourse level in first grade. 
● The statistical analysis took into account basic literacy so it did not affect the findings about L1-L2 relations. 
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers found medium-strength positive relationships between listening comprehension in the L1 and L2, for both sentence and discourse comprehension. 
●  However, the positive association between L1 sentence comprehension at preschool and L2 discourse comprehension in first grade was only small. 
● For discourse comprehension, results supported the Developmental Linguistic Interdependence and the Language Independence hypotheses. 
● For sentence comprehension, results supported only the Developmental Linguistic Interdependence hypothesis. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings suggested that improving L1 listening comprehension could help improve L2 listening comprehension, which may in turn support L2 reading comprehension. 
● More research should examine whether findings extend to other domains, e.g., vocabulary, reading, or writing. 
● More research should examine whether systematic attention on listening comprehension in early childhood could benefit other areas such as academic language, or cognitive and literacy skills. 