
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Writing proficiency in a foreign language is an indispensable instrument for both student mobility and access to the job market. Research has shown that Corrective Feedback (CF) can be used to improve writing accuracy in a foreign language. Yet, research has not yet reached a consensus as to the most effective type of CF for foreign language writing. To help bridge this gap, this paper explores the effects of unfocused indirect CF, that is feedback on all error types through metalinguistic comments on the nature of the errors made, combined with extra computer-mediated micro-tasks, on writing accuracy amongst students. By focusing on the impact of this specific CF strategy on error types, this paper follows up on a previous study by the same authors exploring the effects of various CF strategies on Interlanguage development for the online component part of a blended EFL course were explored, and which highlighted that this specific CF type was the most efficient. The results show that unfocused indirect CF combined with computer-mediated micro-tasks improved learners’ writing accuracy. 
What the researchers did
 
● An online course was set up during which each student had to submit two online written tasks (along with a number of other assignments). 
● In this course, online human tutor feedback was combined with predetermined comments and coupled with computer-mediated micro-tasks. This CF generation system allowed tutors to highlight students’ errors (to foster their attention) and provide them with semi-automated individualized revision sheets containing metalinguistic comments on the nature of errors as well as links to corresponding online micro-tasks. Learners were then invited to revise their written tasks themselves. 
● 1,150 French freshmen students of different cohorts took part in the study over a five-year period (from 2014 to 2019); 1,986 written tasks were completed. 
● To tag the recurring errors in the students’ productions, we relied upon a system designed to carry out computer-aided error analysis in learner corpora (the Louvain typology). 
● This study explored two research questions: (1) What error types are the most frequent among the large cohorts of students who took part in this study? (2) Is the impact of this CF type more noticeable on certain error types? 
What the researchers found
 
● Out of the 55 error types in the classification system, 31 error types were identified in our study. Among these, it appears that, in quantitative terms, lexical (word) issues come first: just over 46% of errors were tagged as lexical errors, while grammar errors amount to just over 26%. 
● The ten most quantitatively important error types highlighted represent more than 77% of all the errors, suggesting that a fairly limited number of error types was truly problematic for the participants. 
● 58.87% of the 7,483 errors tagged were isolated errors, i.e., errors which did not reappear in the students’ subsequent writings after the CF they had received. This tends to show that the CF provided might have had a positive impact on the accuracy of the students’ written productions for a wide majority of error types.  
● The twelve most commonly recurring error categories (all data taken together) represent 95% of all the recurring error types highlighted in the corpus. 
Things to consider
 
● The scope of this study is limited, if we consider that the participants completed only two written tasks as part of the one-semester online course. It would therefore be interesting to implement the CF system we used in an annual course. Besides, the general learning context as well as individual differences might have played a role, which was not evaluated here. 
● Our results suggest that the CF system provided pushed participants into writing more accurate texts in English. However, L2-specific error types could/should be developed to help those having difficulties with them improve their writing accuracy in our French context; Moreover, lexical errors should not be overlooked as they can be the most common error types made by learners. 
● Our study results can be used to inform language teacher education programmes as regards the use of digital tools by online human tutors for the development of FL accuracy.  Data, materials, open access article: N/A 