
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This paper explores the value of using translanguaging in Indigenous classrooms. Indigenous children, particularly in the more remote areas of Australian, often come to school speaking a language other than English as their first language.   This may be a creole, a traditional Indigenous language, or a non-standard dialect such as Aboriginal English. In this paper we explore the possibilities of using translanguaging in their classrooms. Translanguaging is a practice by which multilingual speakers draw on all their linguistic resources to communicate. In this paper we argue that teachers should recognize and value the children’s first language by incorporating it into their classroom practices, and that this will have the dual benefit of assisting the children in their journey to the acquisition of Standard Australian English (SAE) – the language of the classroom – and additionally demonstrating the value of the languages (which are often multiple), that the children do speak. What we did 
● The data for this study was recorded in both classrooms and the school playgrounds during normal school days. 
● The children wore small backpacks with recorder in them, and lapel microphones for up to two hours which included time in the classroom and time in the playground.  
● We were particularly interested in the differences we might find between the language use in the playground and in the classroom.  
● Recordings were transcribed and analysed for the language used. We focused on the language used in the classroom in particular and identify occasions where the children first languages are being incorporated into the classroom practice. What we found We identified a number of examples in the data where teachers encouraged students to draw on their full range of language resources in different ways. This demonstrated that teachers can recognize and value the linguistic knowledge that the children do bring into the classroom, whilst also providing appropriate models of Standard Australian English and where possible discussing differences between SAE and the languages the children are bringing to class. We also found the students were well able to move between their various languages depending on context and to whom they were speaking. We argue to the importance of valuing and fostering multilingualism in the classroom and point out that this can be done by engaging with translanguaging techniques even when the teacher does not speak any of the children’s languages. This allows Indigenous students to incorporate their full linguistic repertoire both in the classroom context, and in the playground. We also note that this approach is in line with the National Australian curriculum (ACARA 2014) which shows considerable policy support to enable the use of translanguaging strategies across most year levels. 
Things to consider
 We are aware that incorporating translanguaging into the classroom is not an easy exercise for teachers and does require support with time and space for implementation and teacher awareness of their students’ linguistic backgrounds that are often invisible. There is also a tendency to view non-standard dialects as deficit languages rather than as the autonomous languages they are. Therefore, the value of translanguaging lies in its ability to give recognition to the multilingual capabilities of these learners and, in particular, to Aboriginal students who often have a diverse array of languages and proficiencies, but whose voices to date have tended to be silenced by a curriculum and teaching practices that have not recognised what they have to offer or what they bring to school. Further research and curriculum development is needed to explore the most efficacious ways in which this might be managed across the different schools levels and beyond including Vocational Education and Training, and tertiary education.  