
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Teachers often feel the need to hide their emotions and put on faces when they teach, exemplifying features of a model teacher with immaculate professionalism. Despite previous research outlining the importance of teacher emotions, many teachers still find it difficult to display authentic emotions, particularly in moments of vulnerability. The emotional experience of teachers was complex already, and it is further complicated by the sudden outbreak of COVID-19, as many teachers are now obligated to teach online with increasing workload and limited resources. This makes the examination of teacher emotions during online teaching more pertinent. This paper reported on a self-study of the complex emotional journey of a university language teacher during her online teaching. Through close analysis of her emotions and how she regulated these emotions, the paper sheds light on the importance of channeling positive emotions into online teaching and promotes self-study as a viable approach for language teachers to engage in reflections towards their emotions and continuing development. 
What the researchers did
 
● We collected data from four sources, including a personal journal, group reflection, student feedback and teaching materials. 
● We analyzed the complex emotional journey of the teacher through identifying emotions and relevant emotional regulation strategies. Additionally, the underlying emotional rules, that is, why such emotions arose were also discussed. In this way, we explicated the dynamic emotional experience of the language teacher. 
● We provided feasible suggestions for teachers and researchers in the field of language education. 
What the researchers found
 
● The social nature of teacher emotions, namely, how teacher emotions arose from social interactions in the online university English classroom. 
● The development of emotional competence (e.g., the ability to manage emotions) in one language teacher during an online semester. 
● The importance of an emotionally managed classroom, and how teachers can manage their own and their students’ emotions. 
● How positive emotions can be channeled into online language classrooms using technology (e.g., gamifying tasks, using online resources etc.). 
● The importance of teacher-initiated self-studies in creating a better learning experience for their students. 
Things to consider
 
● This paper reveals interesting dynamic interactions of different aspects of emotions, yet because of limited duration (e.g., one semester), further research needs to be done in other contexts with prolonged online engagement to substantiate the findings. 
● The self-study yields rich findings but would have been better if other institutional members (e.g., colleagues) had been involved to produce a collaborative self-study. Future research is advised to consider such a collaborative orientation. 
● We would like to encourage more language teachers to reflect and write about individual emotional experiences in self-studies. 