
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Expressing one’s opinions and feelings is fundamental to human communication, and a basic stance-taking skill that language learners must acquire. While the literature on stance-taking in the first language (L1) and second language (L2) is extensive, little is known about stance performance by heritage language learners in written discourse. This study compared the use of a prominent stance marker, wo juede (the counterpart of ‘I think’ in Chinese), in three written corpora by heritage learners, native speakers, and L2 learners of Chinese. The results showed heritage language writers’ stance-taking performance consistently fell between that of L1 and L2 writers. There was also a clear contrast between heritage writers and L1 writers in the formulaic usage of the stance marker: heritage writers’ stance performance was self-centered and text-oriented, exhibiting a strong reliance on wo juede combined with textual organizers such as contrastive or causal conjunctions. L1 writers were more reader-oriented, frequently combining wo juede with interpersonal devices including attitudinal markers, sentence-final particles, and question forms. The study contributes to the growing literature in heritage learner pragmatics and heritage language writing instruction. 
What the researchers did
 
● The use of wo juede in three compatible written corpora was compared in terms of frequency, stance type, and formulaic pattern. 
● Stances expressed by wo juede were coded in two types: o epistemic stance -- presenting an opinion o affective stance -- indicating an emotional state or physical sensation 
● Formulaic patterns were gauged by frequent word combinations that contain wo juede. The researcher identified 30 collocates of wo juede, and categorized them into three functional groups: referential elements, textual organizers, and interpersonal expressions. 
What the researchers found
 
● Heritage language writers used wo juede slightly less than L2 writers, but over eight times more often than L1 writers. 
● The distribution of stance types in heritage language writing is more similar to that in L1 writing. Both groups showed better control of the functional diversity of wo juede than L2 writers. 
● The formulaic patterns of wo juede in heritage language writing are more similar to those in L2 writing. Both groups are drastically different from L1 writers. 
● Wo juede in heritage language writing constantly co-occurred with textual connectors, very rarely with interpersonal expression. The pattern was reversed in L1 writing, where the stance maker was predominantly combined with interpersonal expressions, seldom with textual connectors. 
Things to consider
 
● Heritage learners’ pragmatic competence seems to vacillate between that of L2 learners and native speakers, and formulaic language may be a particularly weak area in heritage learners’ pragmatic learning. 
● Heritage language instruction could explicitly teach the pragmatic meaning conveyed by collocational forms of stance expressions, stress the importance of interpersonal resources in stance communication, and recognize the role of learner agency in the construction of a writer’s identity and voice. 
● Future research should investigate the interplay between identity and pragmatics, as heritage writers’ stance performance may be shaped by their agentive choice to construct a new voice as they learn to write in their home language, and motivated by their desire to appear logical and confident as novice writers. 