
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teaching students how to analyze and evaluate what they read and become more creative has been an integral part of the English language curriculum in the Israeli school system since 2013. The teachers, as a result, became expected to teach these higher-order thinking skills (HOTS) and ask questions that encourage their students to use these skills. This study aimed at investigating the thinking levels of the questions that the teachers ask. The researchers observed thirteen high school English teachers while teaching reading comprehension texts. The teachers were then interviewed to examine their beliefs about teaching HOTS, and the challenges they face while doing so. The results showed that most of the teachers' questions emphasized the low thinking skills of understanding and remembering. The findings of the analysis of interviewees' answers indicated that the teachers believed in the importance of teaching HOTS. They, however, face some challenges while teaching those skills. 
What the researchers did
 
● Thirteen English high school teachers accepted to take part in the study. 
● To learn about the cognitive level of the teachers' questions, the researchers observed each of the thirteen teachers while teaching a reading comprehension text. 
● The researchers recoded each lesson and wrote all the questions asked by the teacher on a sheet. 
● The researchers categorized each question and wrote it on the observation checklist under one of the six levels - remembering, understanding, applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating. 
● The researchers counted the number of questions under each cognitive level for frequency and percentage. 
● Each of the participants was then interviewed and asked questions about his beliefs regarding teaching high thinking skills, and about the problems faced while teaching those skills. 
● The participants' answers were analyzed and grouped under two main titles: 1) teachers' beliefs about teaching high thinking skills, 2) the challenges the teachers face while teaching high thinking skills. 
What the researchers found
 The cognitive level of the teachers' questions 
● The results showed that the participants' asked much more questions that needed understanding and remembering than questions that demanded analyzing, evaluating or creating. What do the teachers' think about teaching higher-order- thinking skills? 
● The participants believed that teaching HOTS was important and emphasized that it was their role to teach those skills. What are the challenges the teachers face while teaching skills that required high cognitive demands in an EFL classroom? 
● The researchers categorized the challenges into two factors: internal - related to the teachers, and external – related to the students, the system, and some cultural norms. 
Things to consider
 
● The participants lack sufficient knowledge and training regarding teaching high thinking skills. 
● Teachers need professional development courses that reduce their fears and improve their experience and teaching methods. 