
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Language tasks are recommended for use in language learning classrooms to help students practice a foreign language through interactions. However, the interaction that occurs across task types and how students participate in these tasks are generally not shown. This study compared the interaction that occurs in two types of tasks among English as a Foreign Language (EFL) students with low English proficiency levels. The study showed that regardless of task type, students were able to achieve task completion through minimal language use. These group of students considered the task outcome of more importance than producing talk to negotiate their opinions. 
What the researchers did
 
● The teacher taught 28 students from four EFL classrooms in three different Korean middle schools (age 12-16). 
● The students had low levels of English-speaking proficiency. Their proficiency level was determined by their homeroom teachers and based on their prior test scores. 
● The teacher taught fifteen English lessons over a three-year period. The lessons were all task-based surrounding five task types which were either structured (a correct answer is required) or unstructured (there is no clear answer). 
● The learners were grouped into self-selected quads, triads, or pairs. Interactions within each group were video recorded. 
What the researchers found
 
● In all tasks, the students oriented toward task-completion throughout their interactions. 
● Students were more motivated to complete the task using minimal language than engaging in a substantial discussion on the task topic or engage in a negotiation surrounding disagreements. 
● Many of the turns were produced as commands in English (e.g., Tell me the name) and taking ordered turns (e.g., It’s your/my turn). 
● Assigning roles to the students (e.g., questioner, answerer) minimized talk as well because students produced no more than what was required for task completion. 
● Task outcome was celebrated in the interaction through clapping and evaluations (e.g., Wow). 
Things to consider
 
● This study suggested that tasks that contain topics of interest to the groups of students involved may promote more talk and thus further learning opportunities. 
● The study suggested that students may benefit from instructions on frequently used expressions in task interactions (e.g., “What do you think?”, “I disagree because…”). 
● The study showed that lower proficiency level students can complete the tasks in a competent manner through peer-interaction. More research is needed to find out if the present findings hold in different types of settings and with different level of students. 