
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examines the roles of bilingual children's literature, as reported from the perspective of preservice teachers in Israel. Despite the small number of these books, it is important to examine the phenomenon, as such books provide a representation of the numerous cultures and minority groups that comprise the population of Israel. The findings indicated three interrelated roles, namely, (a) the linguistic role that serves to foster literacy, (b) the social role that serves to promote multiculturalism, and (c) the educational role which serves to convey moral values and contributes to students' identity formation. The model constructed on the basis of these findings highlights the unique contribution of each role and the synergic effect of the three roles combined. 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited participants from a college that promotes diversity and inclusivity. Out of the 90 preservice teachers, three were men and 87 were women; 22 were Arab students and 68 were Jewish students who were either in their second year or third year of the program. 
● The researcher asked the preservice teachers: What do you know about bilingual children's literature? What are your thoughts and feelings regarding bilingual children's literature? Would you choose to integrate bilingual children's literature in your teaching? If so, how? If not, why not? They used three data sources - position papers, focus groups, and interviews – to gain a broad perspective on the bilingual children's literature issue.  

What the researchers found
 
● As the findings reveal, in the poetics of bilingual children's literature, the three types of roles manifest as a triadic feature: (a) The participants' responses were related to the linguistic role of bilingual children's literature while promoting language acquisition and inculcating language skills. (b) Socially, bilingual children’s literature serves as one of the many modes that promote multiculturalism in a culturally diverse society. (c) The education role of bilingual children's literature is to convey moral values . 
Things to consider
 
● Each role is different and highlights a particular aspect of bilingual children's literature. 
● Although each one of the roles may be featured in other types of literature, bilingual children’s literature is based on all three roles working together. 
● The researchers suggest that bilingual children's literature is unique specifically because of its implicit ideological function. 
● Bilingual literature should be viewed as only one part of the complex and varied approaches that promote linguistic development, multiculturalism, and moral values. 