
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Grammatical gender can be extremely difficult for second language (L2) learners. Previous research shows that one reason for this is that they don’t learn gender alongside nouns, and they don’t use gender information to help them comprehend sentences. Students might learn grammatical gender better using instructional materials like Processing Instruction (PI), which is designed to make them use gender information while interpreting sentences. In this study, I taught learners of German 24 noun-gender pairings related to clothing vocabulary, comparing PI to a traditional instruction (TI) and to a type of self-study (CM). Results showed that the PI group had higher accuracy scores than the TI and CM groups on a gender-selection task, a written production task, and a comprehension task, and that PI helped students learn the vocabulary words. However, differences between the three groups were no longer measurable four weeks later. This suggests that PI can be effective for grammatical gender learning and supports the idea that learners have difficulty acquiring grammatical gender because they don’t process nouns together with gender information. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants: The participants in this study were first-semester learners of German split into 3 training groups: (1) a Processing Instruction (PI) group; (2) a Traditional Instruction (TI) group; (3) a self-study (CM) group. 
● Training: Training differed between the three groups: 
● Processing Instruction: In the first part of training, participants completed 24 items. For each item, they saw three pictures on a screen with 3 different genders (e.g., Der Anzug, Die Tasche, Das Armband ‘The suit, the purse, the bracelet’). They then heard a half-sentence like Hier ist der …” (‘Here is the…’) and selected the picture that completed the sentence. The second part of training was the same, but instead of a half-sentence, the audio prompt used a gender-marked pronoun instead of a half-sentence (e.g., Er ist nett ‘He (it) is nice’). 
● Traditional Instruction: Participants first saw 24 color-coded vocabulary words and selected the picture that matched. They then saw the 24 words again and selected the gender-marked pronoun that matched. 
● Self-Study: The self-study group completed a categorization / memorization (CM) task. They saw a list of the 24 words and rewrote that list, placing the words into categories based on their genders. 
● Assessment: The three trainings were assessed using four primary tasks on a test before (pretest), immediately after (posttest), and four weeks after the training (delayed posttest): 
● Gender selection / translation: For each of the 24 vocabulary items, participants selected the matching gender and provided a translation of the word. 
● Production task: Participants saw a word with its picture and adjectives. They filled in a model sentence, supplying the gender, word, and pronoun: Hier ist der/die/das__. ‘__ ist __ (‘Here is the __. __ is __.’). 
● Comprehension task: This task was identical to the second half of the PI training (see above) 
● Pronoun matching task: This task was identical to the second half of the TI training (see above). 
What the researchers found
 
● Gender assignment: The gender selection and production tasks show that the PI group was more accurate than the TI and CM groups at posttest. However, there were no differences between any of the groups on the delayed posttest. 
● Pronoun use: The comprehension task showed that the PI group used pronouns more accurately for comprehension (by only at the posttest). The results of the production and pronoun matching task were inconclusive. 
● Vocabulary: Both the PI and TI groups outperformed the CM group at posttest (but not the delayed posttest). 
Things to consider
 
● Together, results show that PI effectively promoted accurate use of gender, pronouns, and vocabulary. While this was short-lived, PI could be effective if implemented and used consistently in L2 classrooms. Results suggest that PI could influence learners’ ability to use gender information automatically, perhaps even online (e.g., in prediction). 
● Results are consistent with and lend support to psycholinguistic theories that L2 difficulties in gender assignment and processing stem from differences in L1 and L2 learning. 