
What this research was about and why it is important 
  English is increasingly being used as a medium of communication in international business contexts, such as in business meetings. Previous studies have shown that speakers of different first language and cultural backgrounds use communication strategies to facilitate their interactions in English and achieve their communicative goals. This study looked at business professionals’ use of ‘explaining’ as a way to increase the clarity of what they say so that mutual understanding is achieved. Six internal meetings held at a German organization located in Malaysia were video recorded. The spoken business interactions were transcribed and analyzed to determine how the participants used ‘explaining’ in order to communicate more effectively. The study showed that the participants provided explanations even when there was no request for further information or when such a request was implied. These explanations provided additional information or background details that contributed to increasing communicative clarity and enhancing shared knowledge.   
What the researchers did
 
● The organization chosen as the research site had an almost equal number of German and Malaysian employees. 
● Employees, who spoke different first languages (German, Malay, a Chinese dialect, or Tamil), used English as the language for workplace and business communication. 
● Six department and inter-department meetings were video-recorded; participants at these meetings reported on and discussed ongoing or completed projects as well as planned and arranged for future tasks. 
●  The video recordings were transcribed where not only the words that were spoken were indicated but also the manner of delivery (e.g., intonation, pausing etc.); nonverbal aspects of communication such as head nods, hand movement, and eye contact or gaze were also indicated in the transcripts. 
● Close, detailed analysis of the transcripts was conducted to determine how ‘explaining,’ that is, providing additional details or background information in relation to the original message, contributed to shared knowledge and mutual understanding. 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants provided explanations in the absence of a request for additional information or following an implicit request. 
● Explanations were provided when participants anticipated gaps in knowledge or understanding among co-participants, particularly when they reported on a topic considered new or unknown to others. 
● Participants were attuned to the need for clarity when conveying information and sharing knowledge in this business setting. 
● Providing additional details and background information increased the clarity of the message and contributed to enhanced understanding of the topic under discussion. 
● This strategy assumed a significant role in promoting communicative effectiveness for participants who were of different first language and cultural backgrounds communicating through the medium of English. 
● Participants’ skilled used of explaining reflects their ability to use the language in a flexible and adaptive manner to suit the context, setting, and situation of the interactions. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that participants in business meetings are focused on getting across messages that are factually accurate, clear, and with sufficient detail; they rely on strategies like explaining to clarify a message and reduce ambiguity, which has been shown to be a major source of nonunderstanding. 
● Future business professionals will benefit from business communication training that includes components on strategy use. 
● Business communication trainers must consider the following: raising future practitioners’ awareness of communication strategies and their role in promoting effective communication, using real examples of business interactions in English as input, and providing opportunities for trainees to use the strategies in meaningful interactions. 