
What this research was about and why it is important 
 COVID-19 led to emergency remote teaching (ERT) worldwide and it affected the way that language classes were taught. While skepticism existed, Chinese language instructors employed various strategies to carry out character instruction in ERT. How did instructors perceive technology-based character instruction online? How did instructors use online technologies to support students’ character learning? What types of support or resources were needed by instructors? The study used a mixed-method design to investigate these issues. It was found that the traditional handwriting approach to learn characters was modified in ERT. Depending on the instructional level, different factors were associated with instructors’ technology use. The importance of teacher community support was emphasized. 
What the researchers did
 
● One hundred and thirty-three Chinese language instructors in the United States were recruited to complete an online questionnaire. The online questionnaire asked for participants’ responses regarding their level of agreement on various statements regarding instructors’ perceived value and confidence in online character instruction, the external conditions of technology adoption, and instructors’ practice in character instruction in ERT. 
● Follow-up interviews were conducted with 11 of the participants who had completed the questionnaire. The interview solicited participants’ attitudes regarding handwriting in ERT, their technology use in character instruction in ERT, and the perceived challenges and support needed in ERT. 
● To analyze instructors’ perceptions and practices of character instruction in ERT as well as their correlating factors, the researchers divided participants into the beginning-level group and the upper-level group) for analyses. To probe the support and resources that instructors needed, responses from all 133 participants were analyzed together. Numerical responses from the questionnaire were analyzed with quantitative methods; textual responses to open-ended questions and from the interviews were analyzed qualitatively. 
What the researchers found
 
● In ERT, the traditional handwriting requirement in Chinese curriculum was modified into interactive reading and writing tasks or asynchronous online tasks. Technologies facilitated student interactions in character learning. Character learning was integrated with other literacy skill development including text comprehension or writing. 
● Regardless of the instructional level, instructors’ self-confidence correlated with their technology use in ERT. Among beginning-level Chinese instructors, perceived time sufficiency, instructors’ technology access, and support received were additional correlating factors of their technology use. Among upper-level instructors, perceived value of online teaching was another factor associated with technology use. 
● In ERT, instructors especially needed language-specific training and peer support from teacher communities. 
Things to consider
 
● Online tools can be used to transform traditionally solitary tasks such as handwriting to more interactive learning tasks. 
● Resources that were traditionally allocated to repeated handwriting can be redirected to tasks that integrate reading, writing, and multiliteracy skills. 
● In seeking a handwriting-typewriting balance in the future, field-level guidance is needed; teacher community leaders should shoulder the responsibilities to address language-specific challenges and to help instructors connect with each other. 