
What this research was about and why it is important 
  An important goal of foreign language education is to offer students optimal conditions for learning, but how can teachers decide what is best for their students? We know that language learners differ from each other in their cognitive abilities, for example their aptitude for language learning, their ability to store and process more or less information in memory at any one time, and whether they find verbal, as opposed to schematic, explanations more or less conducive to learning. The aim of this study was to investigate potential relationships between such learner characteristics and the relative effectiveness of two different explicit instructional approaches to teaching the preterit versus the imperfect in Spanish. One approach relied on traditional grammar rules while the other made use of pictures and diagrams. We found that university-level multilingual adult learners benefited equally from either approach regardless of their individual characteristics and preferences. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 41 students of Spanish as an additional language aged between 18-44. They came from 18 different first language backgrounds. Their proficiency in Spanish was relatively high (equivalent to upper intermediate). 
● Twenty students were assigned to a traditional instructional condition (TI) and twenty-one to an unfamiliar instructional condition (Concept-Based Instruction or CBI). Both groups completed two 90-minute computer-based instructional sessions on two separate days which consisted of tutorial and practice tasks. 
● TI content focused on form through pedagogical grammar rules, e.g. ‘The preterit is used to refer to events in a narrative in the past’. CBI focused on meaning and presented the concept of tense/aspect using mainly diagrams and pictures. Otherwise, the tasks were comparable in that they were presented visually, employed multiple-choice items and incorporated feedback. 
● To test the relative effectiveness of the two instructional approaches in helping learners improve their knowledge of the preterit and the imperfect in Spanish, students were assessed by means of a gap-fill test and a metalinguistic knowledge test before and after instruction. 
● Language learning aptitude, working memory capacity, verbal-imagery cognitive style and attitudes were measured to identify potential relationships between learner characteristics and effectiveness of instruction. 
What the researchers found
 
● All students improved in terms of metalinguistic knowledge about past tense/aspect marking in Spanish regardless of the instructional approach they experienced. Surprisingly, neither TI nor CBI helped them improve actual use of the preterit and the imperfect as measured by the gap-fill test; in fact, they did worse after instruction. 
● All students expressed positive views about the instructional approach they experienced. 
● Previous knowledge of languages other than Spanish did not have any impact on performance. 
● Individual differences in language learning aptitude, working memory and cognitive style were not associated with performance on the language tests. 
Things to consider
 
● This study found that both instructional approaches helped learners of Spanish improve their explicit (metalinguistic) knowledge about a difficult language structure (past tense/aspect). However, when tested on the use of the preterit and the imperfect forms after receiving instruction students performed worse. A possible explanation is that the observed gains in explicit knowledge may have temporarily destabilized the students’ linguistic systems. This assumption would in fact suggest a positive eventual outcome by signalling progress to come and thus reflecting the non-linear nature of language learning. 
● No associations between individual differences in cognitive ability and gains on the language measures were found in this study. This might be explained by the participants’ relatively high Spanish proficiency level, their considerable language learning experience overall and the perhaps not sufficiently challenging nature of the (written) language tests used in the study. In general, extensive experience with language instruction may have a levelling effect by neutralising the role of individual differences in cognitive abilities such as language learning aptitude and working memory.  