
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In spring, 2020, COVID-19 thrust nearly all language educators into online teaching without much preparation. It is important to understand the impact of this unprecedented emergency remote teaching experience on world language educators’ views about online language teaching in postpandemic times. We used quantitative and qualitative information to investigate world language educators’ intention to teach online in postpandemic times, and what factors and in what ways these factors meaningfully influenced intentions. The findings show that educators were generally positive about adopting online language teaching, although many preferred hybrid teaching if given the choice. Three factors predicted the research participants’ intention to teach online.   
What the researchers did
 
● 662 US-based college-level world language educators completed an online questionnaire to share their level of agreement with statements about their experience during the pandemic, intention to teach online in postpandemic times, and elaborate on their views in a few open-ended questions. 
● Individual follow-up interviews were conducted with 17 participants. Each interviewee provided in-depth reflections on their teaching experience during the pandemic and future plans. 
● Responses collected in the online questionnaire were analyzed with quantitative analysis methods; textual responses to relevant open-ended questions from the online questionnaire as well as interview transcripts were analyzed with qualitative analysis methods. 
What the researchers found
 
● U.S.-based college-level world language educators were generally positive about adopting online language teaching in postpandemic times. 
● Many prefer the combination of online and face-to-face teaching if given the choice. 
● Among six factors examined, only three (perceived values of online language teaching, self-confidence in online language teaching, and stress felt during the pandemic) could strongly predict their intention to teach online in postpandemic times. 
● Three other factors (technological access, online teaching training and support, and perceived student readiness for online language learning) had an indirect influence on language educators’ intention; perceived student readiness had a strong positive influence on language educators’ perceived values and self-confidence. 
Things to consider
 
● World language educators recognized that online language teaching, whether 100% online or hybrid, is an inevitable professional trend. Many language educators realized they were not well prepared for this future. Thus, more rigorous teaching training should be provided.  
● Stress as a positive predictor for the intention to teach online is a unique finding that shows the stressful experience during the pandemic has propelled many language educators to learn and adapt fast, consequently becoming more open to teaching online. 
● The online questionnaire may have excluded people who were not comfortable with technology, thus rendering the findings unrepresentative of the entire population. The positive attitude about online teaching in the future may have been shaped by the timing of the study that took place in the high time of the pandemic. 
● Faculty background (e.g., prior online language teaching experience, expertise areas) effects students’ view of online language teaching were not investigated in the study. This relationship merits further investigation. 