
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Foreign language learners sometimes struggle in the language learning process and fail to improve their language skills despite many years of language instruction. Although attempts to explore this phenomenon were made, possible effects of failure attributions (causal explanations for failure) and metacognitive awareness (awareness of how one thinks) of language learning were neglected. This study investigated language learners’ failure attributions and their metacognitive awareness levels, and the relationship between both variables. The findings revealed high metacognitive awareness levels and lack of effort attributions for failure among language learners, while a weak negative correlation was identified among attributions and metacognitive awareness levels. What the researcher did 
● In order to assess learners’ metacognitive awareness levels and failure attributions in learning English two different instruments were implemented. 
● The instruments were translated into Turkish since the 218 participants were Turkish learners of English in a Vocational High School. 
● 136 male and 82 female learners of different grade levels (aged 14-17) participated in this study. 
● Learners were categorized as high achievers, average level learners, and low achievers based on their English course grades. 
● The instruments were administered by the researcher herself within two weeks. What the researcher found 
● Turkish EFL learners mostly attributed their failure in language learning to their lack of effort, followed by task difficulty and luck, and lack of ability. 
● Achievement attributions did not vary with regard to gender but achievement attributions of effort, task difficulty and luck increased with learners’ grade level. 
● Low achievers did not attribute their failure to their ability. 
● Language learners demonstrated high metacognitive awareness. 
● Females’ metacognitive awareness levels were higher compared to that of males. 
● 11th graders had the highest metacognitive awareness levels. 
● High achievers reached higher metacognitive awareness levels. 
● Failure attributions did not change based on metacognitive awareness levels. 
● High achievers with low metacognitive awareness levels were more likely to explain their failure with their lacking ability compared to high achievers with high metacognitive awareness levels. 
Things to consider
 
● The claim that maladaptive failure attributions or low metacognitive awareness are responsible for the struggle in language learning was disproved in this study, since effort attributions increase the expectancy for future motivation and students with high metacognitive awareness are considered effective learners. 
● Taking self-regulated learning theories into consideration, learners’ ongoing failure experience in language learning despite favorable circumstances might be related to learner’s previously reported low motivation to learn English. 
● Turkish EFL learners’ lack of goals or low integrativeness might be factors promoting low motivation. 