
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The notion of “language teaching methods” has been seen as problematic by both researchers and educators, yet it still persists as a way that world language teachers organize and articulate what they do in the classroom. This study investigates the beliefs that teachers hold about their own language teaching methods, and how they carry them out in the classroom via instructional practices. Using surveys, interviews, and classroom observations, the researchers found that teachers made their decisions about teaching not due solely to one idea of teaching methods, but rather on the basis of their teaching context, specifically their learners’ interests and the requirements of their institution. 
What the researchers did
 
● Setting was a large public school district in the United States. 
● Ten teachers of Spanish and French in middle (age 11-13) and high schools (age 14-18) were the participants. 
● Participants responded to a survey about their teaching methods. 
● Each participant was also observed for at least two class periods. 
● Participants were interviewed about their beliefs about language teaching and learning. 
● All of the data were considered together for each teacher in turn, then themes were identified across teachers. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers identified strongly with specific teaching approaches but also acknowledged ambiguity in their beliefs. 
● Teachers expressed strong beliefs about grammar teaching; input, output, and the four skills (reading, writing, listening, speaking); and the instructional flow of the classroom. 
● The teachers’ instructional decisions were strongly influenced by their context, especially their students, district leaders, curriculum, and mandatory yearly assessments. 
● Teachers reevaluated and reconsidered what they did in the classroom regularly, considering their beliefs and identification with methods as well as their context. 
● The relationship between the teachers’ beliefs and practices was thus mediated by their context. 
Things to consider
 
● Teacher education programs should consider placing less emphasis on the importance of asking teachers to identify or follow specific teaching methods, and instead should promote the development of strategies to adapt to their instructional environment. 
● Teachers at all stages of their career should think about how their context affects their beliefs and their instructional practices, and make sure that it is effective for them. 
● Future work should also look at how the larger social and political environment might play a role in the relationship between teachers’ beliefs and practices. 