
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Mobile technology (e.g., smartphones, tablet) has been more and more frequently used to support English teaching and learning around the world. Many teachers want to know if and how smartphones can be helpful for English learning. Is the way students learn English with smartphones outside the classroom the same as the way they learn with a teacher in the classroom? This study examined how a group of Chinese university students learned English as a foreign language with their smartphones outside the classroom. The findings showed that smartphones were considered as useful for English learning by the participants and how Chinese university students learned English with smartphones was completely different from the way they learned in the classroom.  
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 57 Chinese university undergraduate students learning English as a foreign language. 
● All the participants completed a questionnaire and five of them attended a 15-minutes interview. 
● The questionnaire involved 25 statements that students may use to talk about how they learn English with smartphones (e.g., I use mobile applications to learn English vocabulary). The participants were asked to indicate to what extent the statements suited them by circling one of the five options: never, seldom, sometimes, often, and usually.  
● The interview helped collect more information about how the participants thought about learning with smartphones outside the classroom and learning with a teacher in the classroom, which way they liked better and what were some of learning activities that they preferred doing with smartphones. 
What the researchers found
 
● Smartphones provided the participants with a lot of new ways to learn English outside the classroom (e.g., watching English movies, listening to English songs), and most of the participants frequently used smartphones to learn English words. 
● When learning with smartphones, participants were more certain about what they wanted to learn themselves, while learning with a teacher in the classroom, they tended to follow teacher instruction and depend on the teacher. 
● Participants were more aware of finding ways to make learning English interesting when learning with smartphones, which was not observed in a face-to-face classroom. 
● There were still few participants who preferred learning with a teacher in the classroom, as they thought that smartphones provided too much information and they did not know which information could be useful. 
Things to consider
 
● Chinese university students used smartphones the most to learn English words in this study, because they wanted to achieve high scores in their English tests. This may not be helpful for them to improve communication skills. 
● Since smartphones are becoming more and more popular for English learning, it seems important now to consider what role a teacher should play in the classroom. 
● Smartphones make it easy to get information anytime anywhere, but at the same time the large amount of information makes it hard for students to choose which information is relevant. Students may still need support from the teacher. 
● Further research should try to design learning activities with the support of smartphones and involve the use of smartphones or mobile applications as formal learning tools. 