
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This research explored how three Thai immigrants acquired a second language – Cantonese – and constructed multiple identities in Hong Kong. It built upon previous knowledge on how language learning and identity construction are inextricably bound up with each other among immigrants in a host community. It differed from much of previous research on identity, migration, and language learning situated in Europe and North America as it focused on an Asian context that is vastly different from European and North American countries in terms of social, cultural, political, and economic domains. This research contributed to the ongoing discussion about identity construction and language learning by expanding its remit to include learners of a less common second language in an Asian context, aiming to provide new insights into the complexity of identity construction and language learning. What the researcher did 
● Data were collected from interviews, onsite observation, and informal conversations with the three participants. 
● Interviews were conducted with each participant to understand their Cantonese learning experience, their values, beliefs, and social positioning. 
● Onsite observation was carried out at several Thai festivals celebrated by the Thai immigrants in Hong Kong. 
● Informal conversations over meals took place in restaurants and their homes. 
● Data were analyzed through narrative knowledging that involved making sense of lived and imagined experience, meaning making, and knowledge construction. 
● Initial themes in data analysis included immigrant status, migrant labor, Cantonese learning, cross-cultural marriage, Thai cultural festivals, perceptions of host community, values of family and work, reflections on language and culture, etc. These themes were then reexamined, compared between participants, and refined across data sources. What the researcher found 
● The three Thai immigrants managed to adjust to the new culture of the local community and pick up Cantonese, but they remained embedded in their own ethnic group where they maintained their Thai identity and preserved their Thai language. 
● While each of the three immigrants has a different professional identity: a domestic helper, a cleaner, and a self-employed business owner, all of them share similarities as they are able to build certain identities that allow them to have access to the local language learning resources and practices. 
● Ms. Mak works as a domestic helper in a local family, and she is also a skilled cook of Thai cuisine and an accomplished craftsperson. Her culinary and handicraft skills enable her to gain access to Cantonese learning and practice opportunities in her employer’s family because these skills are greatly valued by the whole family. 
● Ms. Lau is a cleaner at an office building, and at the same time she is a strict mother of a bilingual child in her family and a civil rights activist in her own community. She exploits these identities in the interactions with her daughter and the Thai community to facilitate her Cantonese learning. 
● Ms. Chung is a savvy business owner and simultaneously a talented Thai dance teacher. The knowledge and skills that she possesses allow her to construct a powerful identity when she interacts with her customers and students, so there are a multitude of opportunities for her to learn and practice Cantonese. 
Things to consider
 
● Regardless of their professions, immigrants are likely to develop multiple identities in their interactions with target language speakers and claim powerful identities with their cultural and social capital such as knowledge, skills, and credentials that can facilitate language acquisition. 
● The access to language learning resources and practices, however, does not depend upon whether they seek full assimilation to a host community. Immigrants who embrace selective assimilation by preserving their own cultural and linguistic heritage are also able to exercise their human agency to reconfigure power relations in their favor and acquire a target language. 
● Future research on language learning, identity, and migration can include immigrants with more diverse backgrounds in different contexts. 