
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study developed and examined a model that helped to show how ideal second language (L2) self, grit, and shyness can affect a second or foreign language learners’ willingness to communicate in the target language. This study showed that language learners who had a clearer and more positive image of themselves as speakers of English (ideal L2 self) tended to be grittier in pursuing their long-term language learning goals. Also, they were more willing to communicate in and practice the target language in the classroom. Furthermore, the findings revealed that the shyest individuals among the participants tended to be less persevering in their L2 learning efforts and less willing to speak in the target language. As one of the main goals of foreign language education is to develop the language learners’ communicative skills in the target language, the findings from this study hold some notable pedagogical implications. 
What the researchers did
 
● We assessed the relationship between the Ideal L2 Self of Chinese learners of English and their willingness to communicate in English. We also assessed whether shyness and grit played a role in this relationship. 
● We developed a questionnaire which we then tested among 239 Chinese undergraduate students learning English as a foreign language.  
● In the main study, the questionnaire was distributed among undergraduate students in three large state universities across three cities in China. The 842 participants in this study were between 18 and 25 years old; they majored in either Business English or English for Educational Purposes. There were more female (93.59%) students among the respondents. 
● The data from the questionnaire survey were analyzed statistically by exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses and by a moderated mediation analysis. For the latter we used PROCESS software version 2.15.  
What the researchers found
 
● The students’ vision of a future self as a confident speaker of English (i.e., the ideal L2 self) had a positive influence on their willingness to communicate in English. 
● Grit was found to mediate the relationship between ideal L2 self and willingness to communicate in English. 
● Language learners’ psychological shyness had a negative impact on grit and willingness to communicate. 
● The relationship between ideal L2 self and grit was found to be moderated by the language learners’ psychological shyness. 
● The mediation effect of ideal L2 self to L2 willingness to communicate through grit was dependent on the level of language learners’ psychological shyness. The mediation effect was stronger among the students with higher levels of shyness. 
Things to consider
 
● As the ideal L2 self affected the students’ willingness to communicate in English, language educators need to devise pedagogical strategies that help their students to develop a vision of a future L2 self as a proficient and confident speaker of English. 
● The findings on the role of shyness and grit suggest that language educators may want to raise their students’ awareness of the importance of being gritty. They also need to find ways to reduce the shy students’ reticence to speak in English in the classroom and help them boost their confidence as an L2 speaker. 
● Collecting and analyzing qualitative data through interviews with students might enhance our understanding of the ‘whys’ behind the students’ reticence and (un)willingness to communicate in the target language. 