
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examines the usefulness of a new teaching method to help higher education students who already know at least two languages learn a new language (target language). In typical language classes, teachers encourage students to use the target language only. However, studies show that allowing students to use languages they already know as tools to make comparisons with the target language can help them notice and make sense of the target language rules. This study tested a task based on a new method of teaching to investigate if students of French in Mexico and of Spanish in Quebec found using other languages they knew and teamwork useful in trying to discover and understand target language rules. The results show that the method was generally perceived as useful. Teamwork and the possibility to use and compare languages were the most appreciated aspects of the task, but trying to discover the target language rules was found difficult or confusing by some students.     
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited 2 groups of higher education students, one learning French in Mexico (27 students, mean age: 22) and the other learning Spanish in Québec (20 students, mean age: 30). All students had already learned English (as 1st or 2nd language), and so had all some knowledge of the same 3 languages: French, Spanish, English. 
● They instructed the two teachers on the new method and established the task with them in order to meet curricular requirements. For the French class, the language structures to learn were the difference Il est vs. C’est, and the use of the pronoun on. For the Spanish class, they were the difference Hay vs. Estar, and the use of the gerund. 
● They audio-recorded the students while they carried out the task. First, students read texts that highlighted examples of the structures they had to learn in the target language. Second, in small teams, students tried to discover what language rules explained the highlighted examples, being encouraged to compare differences and similarities with the other languages they knew. Finally, the whole class discussed the various hypotheses until reaching a consensus on language rules. 
● They administered a questionnaire to students, after the task, to find out how they perceived the usefulness of the different elements of the task (overall appreciation, using other languages, trying to discover rules, teamwork). 
● They analyzed the recorded conversations and questionnaires to discover how students described and understood the new language rules and how this was related to their appreciation of the task. 
What the researchers found
 In the recorded conversations during the task: 
● Students used the already known languages either to describe target language structures and talk about them (language as a vehicle), or as tools to highlight and explain specific similarities and differences in the way the structures work in different languages (language as a resource). 
● Students used the already known languages more often as a resource when the new language structures had similarities with structures in the already known languages. In the answers to the questionnaire: 
● The majority of students found the task useful or very useful to learn the target language structures. 
● All students appreciated the teamwork aspect, and acknowledged the comparison of languages as useful.  
● Having to discover the language rules instead of being taught the rules was perceived as more positive by students in Mexico than students in Québec. 
Things to consider
 
● Students in Québec may be less receptive to discovering rules by themselves than students in Mexico, because they are used to a communicative approach where rule teaching and learning takes a lesser role.  
● In the Québec group, many students were registered in a Teacher Training program, where the focus is on using the target language only in class: this may have negatively influenced their perception of using other languages. 
● There is no relationship between positive/negative perception of the task and the accuracy of hypotheses and use of other languages as a resource: students in Québec made more comparisons and emitted more correct hypotheses than students in Mexico. 