
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The case analysis, a prominent genre in various disciplines, includes an analysis of an organization/company using disciplinary concepts to identify problems or opportunities, followed by recommendations for enhancing the organization/company’s practices. However, students often demonstrate their understanding of the case or disciplinary knowledge rather than use disciplinary knowledge as a way to identify and analyze problems in the case. To help students write analytically, we made explicit the linguistic features of the case analysis through an interdisciplinary collaboration between applied linguists (the authors) and an organizational behavior professor at an American university in the Middle East. Our analysis shows that students integrated the focal linguistic features with varying degrees of effectiveness. The analysis reveals differences in students’ logical reasoning between high, mid, and low-rated texts. We discuss how these differences can inform linguistically responsive instruction. 
What the researchers did
 
● An ethnographic language-focused approach was used to teach two heuristics: the semantic wave to write analytical paragraphs that move from abstract to concrete and back to abstract knowledge; and the I know, I see, I conclude heuristic to make logical connections between what students ‘know’ about the discipline to what they ‘see’ in the case to make conclusions about the case in phases of text that create a ‘wave’ that moves in between disciplinary knowledge and case knowledge. 
● Thirty-three student case analyses were analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively to examine how effectively students applied the two heuristics taught to write analytically. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students integrated the focal linguistic features with varying degrees of effectiveness: 
● Most students met genre expectations by making abstract claims about the case at the beginning and at the end of their analysis paragraphs, integrating organizational behavior knowledge with information about the case, thus creating effective waves between disciplinary and case knowledge. 
● The high-rated texts creatively adapted the I know, I see, I conclude heuristic and used multiple types of conclude moves in the middle of the paragraph. 
● The mid-rated texts followed the I know, I see, I conclude heuristic formally but not functionally and struggled with making claims at the beginning of the paragraphs. 
● The lowest-rated texts included ineffective opening and closing conclude moves, ordered the moves unconventionally, or neglected to include know or see moves. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings show that the workshop materials provided an important resource for analysis, reasoning, and building knowledge. 
● The adaptability of the I know, I see, I conclude heuristic shows its flexibility and the possibilities for student agency it affords. 
● The findings provide support for the value of linguistically responsive instruction to help students meet disciplinary genre expectations. 
● This approach offers a model for interdisciplinary collaborations that increase disciplinary faculty’s awareness of the linguistic demands of their writing assignments. 