
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Building on inclusive pedagogical approaches, this paper considers what queering looks like/sounds like/feels like in the context of two case study classrooms where language teachers learned about Teaching Proficiency Through Reading and Storytelling (TPRS) methods in a novice Mandarin language context. Data include recorded videos and transcriptions, focus groups, fieldnotes, and survey responses. Authors analyze practice from these two workshops for the ways gender and sexuality were addressed in the teacher education classroom. Through queer analysis, researchers discovered the most fully embodied student engagement was related to disruptions in what might be expected in both form and content. Beyond queer characters in classroom stories, both TPRS educators included second language (L2) approaches that were humorous, surprising and pop up connections to languages and cultures in change. This study suggests that L2 teacher education from a queer perspective offers teachers and learners opportunities to deconstruct and question what is conceived to be normal and instead imagine languages and pedagogies for what is possible, equitable, and inclusive. 
What the researchers did
 
● Researchers were participant observers in two different short-term Mandarin A (2016) and Mandarin B (2018) language classes (3 days each) utilizing TPRS instructional methods. 
● 84 adults between the ages of 20 and 59 participated in the two language learning classes, including 16 pre-service teachers who were required to attend as part of their credentialing program.  
● Researchers collected a post-course survey from 41 Mandarin B participants and analyzed over 40 hours of video recordings from both classrooms. 
● Researchers engaged in inductive and deductive analysis of patterns and themes, including a focus on classroom moments where there were disruptions of binaries and/or queer content in the lesson. 
What the researchers found
 
● TPRS instruction included fluid and simultaneous use of Mandarin and English that was playful, humorous and required voluntary and choral output. 
● TPRS instructors set an inclusive tone by incorporating student-generated input that, at times, risked reifying stereotypes in terms of language, culture, race, and sexuality. 
● The most fully embodied student engagement was related to disruptions in what might be expected in classroom content. 
● Incidental learning included acquisition of the target language as well as an understanding that students can engage in original, high-level participation, surprising one another, even as beginners with new meaning in a new language. 
Things to consider
 
● This study shows that approaches such as TPRS emphasizing comprehensibility and fluid use of more than one language can be impactful on language acquisition as well as on aspects of diversity, equity, and inclusion in all age classrooms.  
● This study furthermore shows the need to be reflective of practices that offer teachers and learners opportunities to deconstruct and question what is conceived to be normal and instead imagine what is possible, equitable, and inclusive in our real and imagined world. 
● The findings suggest it is important to critically evaluate TPRS story creations as an entry into expansive L2 language teaching methods but those that can be at risk for reification of normative and exclusive practices. 