
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Instructors’ online teaching experience before COVID-19 and their remote teaching during the pandemic may affect their perceptions of online teaching and their intentions to adopt online tools in the future. The study investigated how Chinese language instructors perceived their own skills in and the value of using online tools to help students learn Chinese characters. It was found that instructors’ online teaching experience before COVID affected their confidence. Perceived online teaching’s value, perceived students’ readiness for online learning, and instructors’ online tool use during remote teaching impacted their intention to use online tools in the future. 
What the researchers did
 
● The research team sent out online questionnaires to Chinese language instructors in the U.S. One hundred and thirty-three instructors completed the questionnaire. These participants indicated their level of agreement on various statements regarding (a) the value of online teaching in character learning, (b) instructors’ confidence in character instruction online, (c) students’ readiness in online learning, (d) online tools use to support character instruction, and (e) intention to use online tools in the future. 
● The researchers conducted semi-structured follow-up interviews with 11 of the participants who completed the questionnaire. The interviewees provided elaborate responses towards questions related to instructors’ experience of teaching Chinese characters online during COVID-19. 
● The researchers performed quantitative analyses on participants’ numerical responses in the online questionnaire. They also qualitatively analyzed participants' responses to open-ended questions in the questionnaire and their responses to interview questions. Themes and patterns were identified in those textual responses. 
What the researchers found
 
● Instructors were generally skeptical regarding the value of online teaching to Chinese character instruction, but those with prior experience teaching online had a more positive attitude.  
● Instructors considered online tools useful in facilitating students’ interactions and encouraging autonomous learning. 
● Instructors’ prior experience teaching online affected their self-confidence in using online tools in remote teaching during the pandemic. 
● Instructors’ intention to use online tools in character instruction in the future was directly affected by their perceived values of online teaching, perceived students’ readiness, and their use of online tools in remote teaching during the pandemic. 
Things to consider
 
● Emergency remote teaching in COVID-19 propelled instructors to experiment with and to identify the value of teaching Chinese characters online. Advancement in online Chinese character pedagogy is expected in the future. 
● Instructors’ confidence in using online tools correlated with their actual online tool use and their perceived values of online teaching. Thus, the researchers called on instructors to embrace emergency remote teaching during COVID as an opportunity to experiment with new tools. 
● This study found that, among other factors, perceived students’ readiness directly affected instructors’ intention to use online tools. Future studies on instructors’ technology acceptance should further explore this factor of students’ readiness. 
● More studies on Chinese character teaching online in a broader context are needed, including studies on K–12 Chinese instructors’ perceptions and language instruction involving Chinese characters in non-U.S. contexts. 