
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Language teachers sometimes wonder whether immersing learners in a second language has any impact on their language skills, especially when learners have only a low or intermediate level. This study investigated whether exposing language learners to constructions that are hard for them to master could make these learners more likely to say them. Two types of Spanish language learners read sentences containing complex constructions in Spanish and completed three oral tasks: one before and two after doing the reading. The study showed that reading those sentences made the two types of language learners use the complex constructions more often in the two oral tasks completed after the reading. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 28 second language learners of Spanish (with English as their first language) and 24 heritage language learners of Spanish (people who grew up speaking and hearing Spanish at home, but who were raised in an English-dominant country). 
● Learners completed a reading task plus three oral tasks, all of them in Spanish. 
● One of the oral tasks was completed before the reading and the other two were completed after the reading (on the same day and one week later). 
● During the reading task, learners saw pictures and read short descriptions about them. Some pictures did not have a description, so learners had to come up with their own descriptions. 
● When a description was provided, it always included the same set of constructions in Spanish. 
● In the three oral tasks, learners also saw pictures and had to create their own descriptions, although this time no single description was provided. 
What the researchers found
 
● In the first oral task before the reading, heritage language learners produced a higher number of the complex constructions under investigation than second language learners, even though none of the groups produced them more than 50% of the time. 
● During the reading task, both groups of learners increased their use of the complex constructions, due to being influenced by the descriptions they read. 
● In the two oral tasks after the reading, learners used the complex constructions more often than in the oral task completed before the reading. 
● Still, in both oral tasks, heritage language learners used the constructions more often than second language learners. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, a brief reading task with complex constructions in Spanish was enough to make both groups of learners use those constructions more often, even a week after completing the reading task. 
● Results suggest that immersing learners in a second language through reading materials in that language can be a good way to make them use constructions they barely use due to being complex and hard to learn. 
● This type of reading task is probably more effective with second language learners than with heritage language learners, as the first ones showed the greatest increase out of the two groups. 