
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers have long used videos and films to create opportunities for language learning in their classrooms. However, only few studies have addressed in detail how the usage of films in language-learning tasks facilitate learner-learner interaction and create different potentials for language learning. To fill this gap, this study looked into the student interactions facilitated by the use of a film as a material resource during a group discussion activity. The aim was to explore the moments when some students, in their groups, orient to moments of learning while recalling different scenes in the film. Based on finely transcribed group discussions, this study showed that the students create opportunities for learning when they correct each other’s utterances and when they search for missing words. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was conducted in an English as a foreign language (EFL) classroom in Sweden with 25 students who study English 7, which is the highest level of English in the Swedish School curriculum. 
● The teacher arranged the students into 5 study groups to facilitate group discussions. All these discussions were video and audio recorded and then transcribed. 
● Upon initial qualitative analysis of the transcriptions, we found that the students engaged in corrections and word searches to close a knowledge gap in the course of co-narrating multiple scenes in the film. These practices enabled the negotiation and uptake of the corrected or the searched-for item. A sample of 5 representative sequences was selected for a close analysis in order to show the moments that students together create opportunities for language learning that are afforded by the film. 
What the researchers found
 
● The analysis showed that the students temporarily suspended the ongoing narrations of the scenes and shifted their attention to emergent interactional troubles (e.g., an error or a missing vocabulary item). They then worked together to solve these troubles before resuming the suspended narrations. Solving these troubles emerged out of the course of accomplishing the discussion task and became an embedded interactional work in the overall co-narrations. 
● The analysis showed that the students who started the word search or received corrective feedback generally acknowledged the feedback from their peers before they, together, resumed the task. 
● The overall results of this study proved that when the teacher used the film as the object of a classroom activity, it became a valuable resource for student engagement and interaction. Not only did the film discussion task make the students engage in meaningful and rich discussions, but it also facilitated opportunities for learning. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that the teacher transformed the film into a useful classroom resource by designing a discussion activity around it, which increased student engagement, maximized language use, and created opportunities for language learning. Thus, if teachers are to use other types of audio-visual materials in their classrooms, they should consider how to embed them into pedagogical activities that may generate more opportunities for language use and learning. 
● The study investigated the learning potentials created by a film in group discussion tasks. Future research can look into the interactions that films facilitate in other task types. Furthermore, researchers can investigate long-term gains of such discussions for language development. 