
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Computer technologies have multiplied the possibilities for connecting speakers of different languages, and for language learners to apply what they learn in a context beyond the classroom. However, what transpires in online spaces is still very much uncharted territory: What happens in unguided interactions between language learners and native speakers? What opportunities, limitations, and considerations do learners face? In this study, researchers interviewed an adult L2 Japanese learner as she messaged native Japanese speakers online. The findings revealed that the learner’s experiences were shaped by conflicting language expectations and language ideologies because of her status as an American foreigner with East Asian heritage. The online platform itself, as well as the learner’s own communicative goals, were also key factors in shaping her experiences with the native speaker chat partners. 
What the researchers did
 
● Researchers conducted a 12 week-long qualitative study of one advanced female learner of Japanese (“Annie”) as a second language, aged 18. Her primary languages were English and Chinese Mandarin. During the study, she was an undergraduate student at an American university and enrolled in sixth-semester Japanese language course and an introductory Japanese culture course. 
● Annie used a mobile and PC-friendly language exchange application called HelloTalk to text message native Japanese speakers throughout the study. 
● Once a week, Annie was interviewed about her thoughts, intentions, and interpretations of her HelloTalk chats. 
● Annie also completed a language background questionnaire and participated in an interview about her Japanese-related experiences and learning goals at the beginning and end of the study. 
What the researchers found
 
● In her messaging interactions, Annie experienced internal conflict due to two sets of expectations stemming from two ideologies. The first was that Annie should try to be a good L2 learner by emulating native speaker Japanese language and culture norms. The second, contradictory ideology concerned the expectations Annie thought her Japanese conversation partners would have of her: that she would engage in a non-native-like, Western or English-based style of communication associated with foreigners—a concept that Annie learned about in her Japanese culture course. 
● Annie also perceived the importance of appearing as a foreigner to Japanese native speakers (who wanted to practice English) on HelloTalk in order to foster their interest in talking to her. Thus, at times, she foregrounded her American, English-speaking foreigner status and avoided revealing her East Asian background. 
● Her perceptions of the contrasting language ideologies and expectations affected how Annie presented herself in her messages, including how she used Japanese, her self-introductions, and her choice of conversation topics. These choices were also influenced by the different identities she sought to convey; as a foreigner, a proficient and knowledgeable student of Japanese language and culture, and an East Asian L2 Japanese user. 
Things to consider
 
● Perceived expectations for how the learner should speak and behave differed based on the context (i.e. within and outside of the classroom). These expectations illustrated not only the potential barriers for foreign language learning and use within online platforms, but also the active and adaptive choices that the learner made to achieve her goals in light of these obstacles. 
● The findings also demonstrated complexities of language learning and teaching of culture, with implications for supporting and enhancing learner experiences “in the wild,” such as focused and guided reflection and discussion of culture concepts that is grounded in personal experiences. 
● This study highlighted how the background of the learner, an East Asian American learner of Japanese, uniquely shaped her experiences using the language and interacting with native speakers. More research is needed for further actionable insight on how to support learners of various backgrounds in the classroom for their experiences beyond. Materials available on https://iris-database.org 