
What this research was about and why it is important 
 One challenge of teaching and learning a foreign language is that our classrooms tend to be isolated from real-world manifestations of the language. Because of this, students and teachers often wind up speaking with little immediate communicative purpose, and instead use the themes promoted in textbooks to practice grammar and vocabulary. However, it is also common for there to be occasional "real" exchanges within the foreign language classroom – ones that hold actual communicative power. This study reviewed moments in an eighth-grade Spanish classroom wherein participants had conflicting conceptions of the "realness" of the conversational exchange at hand. Analysis of these exchanges were presented as a philosophical meditation on what it means to be part of a language community when not everyone is always speaking "for real." What the researcher did 
● An eighth grade Spanish I class at a private school was observed daily for most of a school year. The class had seven students. Every class was audio-recorded. 
● An ecological framework structured this piece.  This framework is informed by the interconnected messiness of nature, and highlights the complexity and occasional contradictions involved in discerning what is (not) foreign and what is (not) real. 
● The conversational exchanges analyzed are all misunderstandings between participants in the classroom. The misunderstandings studied were not due to listening comprehension issues or missing vocabulary; they were specifically rooted in confusion around whether participants were using Spanish "for real." 
● Conversation and discourse analysis were used to consider each moment of each exchange, line by line. This type of analysis allows researchers to identify and isolate moments of confusion, and study the subsequent utterances between participants to "repair" that confusion. What the researcher found 
● Analysis showed that participants in the Spanish language classroom experienced different types of misunderstandings, which related to different facets of student learning and proficiency. 
● The key misunderstandings analyzed arose out of a variety of situations including those related to: language choice, a student-generated joke, a student request for vocabulary, and regional variation. 
● There weren't some students who always were using Spanish "for real" and others who were always in practice mode; rather, different participants' conceptions changed based on the situation at hand. 
Things to consider
 
● As language educators, we might ask ourselves whether some students don't feel ownership of their language because they view themselves as constantly practicing, and never truly communicating.  
● The misunderstandings analyzed indicate that students may be ready to engage with the language in a way their teacher didn't anticipate. As educators, we also might look for these fleeting moments in our classrooms to determine what students are showing us they are ready to do with their foreign language.  
● While this study is limited to the exchanges of a relatively small group, the phenomenon is one that reliably will surface in any language classroom where conversation vacillates between practice and "real" communication. Investigating how this happens in a variety of learning contexts may give us insight into how our students are perceiving the communicative usefulness of the languages they are learning. 