
What this research was about and why it is important 
  People use and learn languages in rich social settings that include interaction with other people and engagement with a diversity of material and symbolic tools, artifacts, and environments. If there is a systematic weakness in instructed language learning, it is the tendency to focus narrowly on grammar (language form) in somewhat decontextualized settings (classrooms). From prior research, we know that the use of identical language learning materials (tasks, textbooks, assignments, technologies, syllabi) do not result in identical—or in many cases, even similar—processes or learning outcomes due the contingencies of differing material processes and conditions. In this research, we carefully examine a particular type of language learning materials use that involved mobile augmented reality (AR) technologies. The AR game we developed is available for learners of different languages (English, French, German, Japanese, Hungarian, and Spanish). Students played in groups of three and were instructed to find five green technology sites around a university campus and to make oral reports about each location. Inspired by research on cognition and learning ‘in the wild’ (outside of classroom spaces), we introduce an approach to pedagogical innovation, termed “rewilding,” that attempts to dynamically augment and integrate formal learning settings with the vibrancy of linguistically and experientially rich engagement occurring elsewhere in the social–material world. Analysis showed that students creatively and improvisationally used features of their immediate physical surroundings to clarify language problems and to complete the language learning tasks, which suggest that situating language learning activities in rich and relevant settings outside of the classroom facilitates language use and learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● English language learners were placed in groups of three, with one location-aware mobile device per group. Participants used an augmented reality game we had developed and were instructed to search the local campus environment to find and make a video report on five green technology sites that included a public transportation center, buildings using recycled rain water and solar power, and a bicycle parking area. 
● We focused on the groups’ moment-by-moment use of the mobile AR game, paying particular attention to ways that the participants interacted with one another, the mobile device, and the material environment around them. 
What the researchers found
 
● Detailed sequential analysis showed how actions such as gaze, pointing, reading aloud from the AR game instructions, and audible communication were used in an orderly manner to achieve and maintain a common understanding of their cooperative activity together. 
● Elements of the physical environment and technology artifacts, such as the mobile phones with mapping and AR software, were fundamentally integrated into the groups’ actions. This has implications for assembling more powerful learning environments in ways that are enmeshed with, and supported by, physical context. 
● This research offers insights into the ways that learning materials, as purpose-designed resources and processes, variably affect individual and group behavior and potentially enhance the developmental trajectories of the people who use them. 
Things to consider
 
● The use of language learning materials can differ greatly across groups and therefore detailed analysis of materials in actual use, and not just pre- and post-test assessments, are critically important for extending knowledge about how and under what conditions learning happens. 
● This research suggests that activities that occur outside of the classroom should better inform the design of learning environments and processes. 