
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has shown that adults are more successful at learning a second language (L2) when they display higher levels of cognitive functioning in domains such as memory and attention. Performance in cognitive tasks, however, is often influenced by an individual’s motivation for the task, and while younger adults often perform similarly well, the performance range becomes wider with increasing age. Despite these interdependencies, little is known about the way in which cognitive capacities influence the L2 development in older learners and how motivational aspects play into this relationship. In this longitudinal intervention study, the main goals were (a) to examine how similar or dissimilar the L2 trajectories of older learners are to one another, and (b) to identify cognitive and motivational factors that may help explain individual L2 differences between learners. Results revealed that participants progressed in highly individual ways and that large part of these individual differences could be explained by the learners’ overall – rather than day-to-day – levels of memory, attention, and fluency in their first language. Motivational aspects exerted some but not as big an influence. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 28 (Swiss) German-speaking adults, aged between 64-74, who enrolled in a Spanish course for beginners. None of them reported having more than school knowledge of any other language. 
● During 2 hours per week, they received classroom instruction that focused on communication and grammar. In addition, learners practiced Spanish at home for 3 hours per week, using language learning software that mainly focused on vocabulary and short phrases. The training comprised a total of 30 weeks. 
● Data collection occurred each weak during the 7-month Spanish course. To assess how participants’ Spanish proficiency changed over the training, weekly written, computerized and oral tasks were administered to assess both productive and receptive skills.  
● Six cognitive tests and a short questionnaire on the learners’ wellbeing and motivation for the training were administered prior to each classroom session. 
What the researchers found
 
● On average, participants improved on all assessed measures of L2 proficiency. The increase was strongest during the initial phases of the training. 
● For some L2 skills (e.g., L2 fluency), individual trajectories were similar to the overall pattern, but for others (e.g., vocabulary size), the overall development was little representative of the individual learners in that some participants showed constant increase and some none at all. 
● Differences between the L2 development of individual learners could be attributed to overall levels of working memory, attentional resources, and fluency in the first language. The difference in L2 proficiency between learners with high and low cognitive function tended to increase over time. Weekly fluctuations in cognitive performance, however, had neither a positive nor a negative effect on the learners’ L2 performance in that week. 
● Participants reported high levels of wellbeing and training motivation throughout the course, and L2 development was only affected by these factors if the individual had below-average levels of wellbeing/motivation. 
● Age did not have a negative impact on the L2 development. 
Things to consider
 
● This study has shown that L2 development in old adulthood follows unique trajectories that are only poorly represented by the overall pattern. Educators should take these potential individual differences into account when designing course syllabi for older learners. 
● Despite the large battery of cognitive and motivational predictors used, the researchers could still not explain a large part of the L2 differences between learners. Future research could help shed light on this by collecting learner biographies and learning experience narratives from each participant so as to identify more factors that contribute to L2 development. 
● While this study explores the role that cognitive capacities play in L2 learning, the next step involves investigating the extent to which learning a new language in old adulthood can maintain cognitive function and stave off age-related cognitive decline. 