
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Motivation is an important factor in learning a second/foreign language (L2). The construct is multidimensional and involves learners’ personality, goals, emotions, and behaviors, which in turn influence achievement. To investigate how different dimensions of motivation create a psychological mechanism for success, this study tested a new model of motivation incorporating many different components. The model included: learners’ regulatory focus (i.e., whether they tend to ‘promote’ advancements and accomplishments or tend to ‘prevent’ negative outcomes); their L2 future selves (their ‘Ideal self’ [as perceived by themselves and by others] and their ‘Ought self’ [as perceived by themselves and others]); their emotional reactions (anxiety vs. enjoyment) to their desire to achieve those ‘selves’; their strategic behaviors (eager vs. vigilant) that match those emotions; and finally their language achievement. The findings indicated that a) a promotion focus (concerned with advancements and accomplishments) positively predicted Ideal selves (representing hopes and aspiration) whereas a prevention focus (concerned with safety and security) negatively predicted Ought selves (representing obligations), b) Ideal self/own predicted enjoyment positively and anxiety negatively, and Ideal self/other and Ought self/other predicted anxiety positively, c) enjoyment predicted eager (maximal) L2 use positively and vigilant L2 use negatively whereas anxiety and ought self/own predicted vigilant (minimal) L2 use positively, and finally d) eager L2 use positively and vigilant L2 use negatively predicted achievement. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 324 undergraduate university students from various disciplines at a university in Iran. 
● Students were taking a compulsory three-credit general English course. 
● Participants completed a questionnaire measuring: regulatory focus (promotion and prevention); future ‘selves’ (ideal self/own, ideal self/other, ought self/own, ought self/other); emotions (anxiety and enjoyment); motivated behaviors (eager and vigilant). 
● Students’ final grades were used to measure their L2 achievement. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students with higher ‘promotion’ pursued Ideal selves whereas those with higher prevention pursued Ought selves. 
● Students with higher Ideal self/own enjoyed L2 learning, those with higher Ideal self/other and Ought self/other were more anxious, and students with higher Ought self/own were more vigilant L2 users. 
● Those who enjoyed L2 learning were more eager L2 user whereas those who were more anxious L2 learners were are vigilant in their L2 use. 
● Students who used the L2 eagerly obtained higher grades while those that were more vigilant obtained lower grades. 
Things to consider
 
● The results showed that chronic regulatory focus plays an important role in future L2 selves. 
● The promotion regulatory focus along with the Ideal L2 self/own seem to form a strong motivational profile that results in high levels of enjoyment, low levels of anxiety, eager use of the second language, and finally achievement in the language learning pursuit. 
● Ought L2 self/other resulted in anxiety, which in turn led to vigilant L2 use strategies and negative effects on L2 achievement. Ought L2 self/own had similar effects on L2 achievement but directly through vigilant L2 use strategies. 
● A promotion-oriented approach is recommended to be adopted in teachers’ motivational practice which aligns with the common-sense perception that language learning requires high levels of openness to experience, positive attitudes, desire for change, and the ability to take risks, make mistakes, and learn about new cultures. Materials and data: Materials are publicly available at https://www.iris-database.org . 