
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Input is essential when learning a second or foreign language (L2). In countries where access to a L2 is difficult, an effective way of maximizing the exposure to the L2 is through reading, which at the same time guarantees input quality. The benefits of reading are multiple, including the learning of new words. Learning of new words is often incidental, meaning readers are not aware that they are learning even though special conditions have been created for them to learn – as is the case in graded readers. Incidental learning is effective but slow, so in this study an instructional procedure was developed to enhance opportunities for incidental learning through children’s graded readers. This new procedure, called Multiple Incidental Exposures (MIE), involved repeated reading while listening and activities that engaged learners in rereading for meaning (i.e., true/false sentences, jigsaw reading with pictures). MIE was compared to a Traditional Explicit Practice (TEP) procedure that consisted of collective reading while listening and carrying out a series of grammar and vocabulary exercises (i.e., fill in the gaps with the missing words; classify the past tenses according to their regularity or irregularity). MIE and TEP were equally effective for vocabulary learning, whereas TEP was better for the learning of the past tense and MIE was slightly better to apply pronunciation patterns to words not seen in class. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 44 Catalan / Spanish 5th grade learners aged (10-11) from two intact classes divided into two groups: o Traditional Explicit Practice (TEP) o Multiple Incidental Exposures (MIE) 
● The two classes were asked to read the same two graded readers over 4 1-hour sessions. The books were written by the same author and were suitable for these students in terms of level (CEFR A2). 
● All learners completed tests on vocabulary, grammar (past tense), and perception of pronunciation both before the reading intervention and after the intervention in order to measure the amount of grammar and vocabulary learned and if they were able to identify mispronounced words 
What the researchers found
 
● The TEP procedure was more effective for grammar learning. 
● The MIE and TEP procedures were equally effective in terms of vocabulary and pronunciation. 
● It was also found that participants in the MIE group were able to apply some of the pronunciation patterns of the words seen in class to new words. 
Things to consider
 
● In summary, this new teaching procedure (MIE) is as efficient as TEP in terms of vocabulary and pronunciation learning; hence, the present study shows that graded readers can be used in a different way and, in so doing, can promote incidental learning in the classroom. 