
What this research was about and why it is important 
 When we hear a sentence and work out its meaning, we do not just use grammar and vocabulary. Our understanding about the world surrounding us plays a pivotal role as well. Monolingual children do not have much real-world knowledge when they first acquire their first language whereas second language learners do. This study investigated whether this difference between the two learner groups leads to a discrepancy in outcomes between first language (L1) and second language (L2) acquisition. This research addressed three research questions in total: (1) Do L1 and L2 speakers have the same grammatical knowledge (of definiteness)?, (2) Do L1 and L2 speakers share the same real-world knowledge?, and (3) Do grammatical knowledge and real-world knowledge interact when they have to be processed within a sentence? The results show that the groups shared grammatical knowledge and real-world knowledge. When the two types of knowledge were combined in one experiment, L2 users relied more on real-world knowledge and L1 more on grammatical knowledge. 
What the researchers did
 
● Experiment 1: The researcher recruited 34 L1 speakers and 84 L2 speakers (49 advanced and 35 intermediate) of English. She showed them a picture with a person in the center and four objects in the corners of the computer screen (e.g., a woman in the center, a mug in a corner, and a glass in the other three corners). None of the four objects were related or associated with the person in the center. Then, participants heard an incomplete sentence that ended with either the or a (i.e., “The woman will want to buy the/a …”). They were asked to select an object that could be the last word of the sentence as quickly as possible. L1 and advanced L2 speakers selected the mug at the cue of the more than when they heard a at the end of the sentence. 
● Norming study: The researcher also tested real-world knowledge of L1 and L2 speakers via an online questionnaire and found out that the two groups had the same level of real-world knowledge. 
● Experiment 2: Finally, grammar and real-world knowledge were tested at the same time. Thirty-six L1 speakers and 43 advanced L2 speakers were shown pictures similar to the first experiment. But this time, either unique (single) or non-unique (multiple) objects were associated with the person in the center (e.g., a stethoscope in one corner and a doctor in the center vs. a hammer in three corners and a construction worker in the center). The sentence was “The man will want to use the/a… stethoscope/laptop” and “The man will want to use the/a… hammer/soccer ball,” respectively. L1 speakers were sensitive to articles even when real-world knowledge alone could predict how the sentence would end. However, advanced L2 speakers showed sensitivity to articles only when real-world knowledge could not give clues as to what would be the last word of the sentence. 
What the researchers found
 
● The first experiment shows that L1 and advanced L2 speakers have the same grammatical knowledge that a definite article (the) presupposes a uniquely identifiable object (mug instead of glass in experiment 1). 
● The norming study shows that real-world knowledge is shared between the two speaker groups. 
● The second experiment shows that the two sources of knowledge are used differently when they have to be processed at the same time. L1 speakers who acquired their first language grammar without pre-existing real-world knowledge have the habit of processing linguistic information even when they do not have to. L2 speakers who acquired their second language grammar after significant cognitive development tend to rely on real-world knowledge when they can. Only when they cannot use non-linguistic information do they start processing linguistic information. 
Things to consider
 
● Participants were a mixed group of people with or without the experience of living in a target-language community. Real-world knowledge was always presented before English articles in Experiment 2, which could have influenced the results. 
● This study shows that L1 children’s inefficient sentence processing routine and L2 adults’ efforts to streamline sentence processing could be the key to the significant difference of the two groups’ ultimate attainment. 