
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Studying the willingness of English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners to participate in the classroom is important because the more engaged they are in the class, the better they will understand the concepts. This willingness could be influenced by students' perception of their teachers' success, credibility, and stroke, that is any behavior used to connect with other individuals by means of recognition. The research aimed to conduct a cross-cultural analysis of Iranian and Iraqi learners’ perceptions of teacher credibility, success, and stroke constructs. The results revealed that both groups maintained high perceptions about their willingness to attend the EFL classroom and the constructs of teacher success, credibility, and stroke. They demonstrated that the constructs are positively related to student participation willingness and can be used to predict it. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recruited 276 Iranian and 150 Iraqi EFL students studying at Iranian universities. 
● They collected data through multiple surveys investigating features of a successful EFL teacher, teacher credibility, learner stroke, and willingness to attend the classroom. 
● They measured the students’ willingness to attend EFL classes. 
● They evaluated teacher success, credibility, and stroke, considering students' perceptions. 
● They examined the relationship between the learners’ willingness to attend EFL classes, teacher success, credibility, and stroke. 
What the researchers found
 
● The students reported highly positive perceptions of their willingness to participate in EFL classes, as well as their teacher's credibility, stroke, and success. 
● The researchers found that learners' willingness to participate in class is positively related to and predicted by the credibility, success, and stroke of their teachers. 
● For Iranian participants, willingness correlated most strongly with learning boosters and sympathy and least closely with classroom attendance. However, for Iraqi participants, it was the most strongly correlated with teacher accountability and learning boosters and the least correlated with sympathy. 
● For Iranian participants, willingness was also associated with goodwill and lowest with competence. However, it was associated with competence and lowest with goodwill for Iraqi university students. 
● In both groups, willingness remained most strongly related to in-class activities and least related to non-verbal strokes. 
Things to consider
 
● Culture affects how learners see their willingness to participate in the classroom and how they view their teacher's success, stroke, and credibility. 
● Students of diverse cultures are likely to perceive knowledge differently if teacher education programs inform them of this possibility. 
● It would be helpful if teacher trainers address the learners’ expectations of a successful instructor. 
● These findings provide valuable information to curriculum developers regarding the close connection between language learning and learners' sociocultural, linguistic, and economic backgrounds. Therefore, integrating the target culture and the home culture into the curriculum will be highly effective. 
● This study also suggests hiring instructors who have in-depth knowledge of teacher success.  
● Additionally, it informs students about the influence of their home culture on their perceptions. 
● The limitations of this study include collecting data from only Iranian and Iraqi cultures, focusing only on the three factors, and solely utilizing a quantitative approach. 
● Finally, future research could extend this inquiry by using qualitative and mixed-method research designs, collecting data from other contexts, and incorporating additional factors. 