
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Funds of identity are socially and culturally developed resources that are essential for self-understanding and self-expression. Our study focused on recognizing the funds of identity that five emergent bilingual (EB) immigrant/refugee parents and their children expressed while making personal connections to nine culturally relevant books that they listened to read aloud via video. A total of 45 book discussions across five mother-child pairs were video recorded and analyzed. Then each participant was interviewed. Sharing funds of identity between a parent and a child expanded their views of one another, affirmed their identities, and informed asset-based approaches to literacy instruction. 
What the researchers did
 
● Five emergent bilingual mothers from immigrant/refugee backgrounds engaged in book discussions with one of their elementary school-aged children at home about each of nine culturally relevant books. 
● While listening to the audio-recorded books in VoiceThread, they discussed questions prepared by the researchers and embedded in the books, and video-recorded their responses. 
● Both mothers and their children were individually interviewed after listening to and discussing all nine books. 
● Types of funds of identity and experiences were identified in each of their responses. 
● Funds of identity and experiences expressed in each parent-child pair were compared. 
What the researchers found
 
● Both emergent bilingual mothers and their children articulated responses related to all categories and subcategories of funds of identity (i.e., geographical, practical, cultural language, cultural artifact, cultural group, social, and institutional funds of identity) 
● Particular books triggered particular funds of identity, so using a variety of books is helpful. 
● Mother-child pairs’ responses that focused on cultural artifact and institutional funds of identity were similar. Reading and discussing culturally relevant books resulted in parents and children affirming their shared identities. 
● Pairs’ responses that focused on practical and cultural group funds of identity we more different. This seems to reflect that mothers and their children have distinct past-times and identities related to their cultural belonging. Reading and discussing culturally relevant books resulted in parents and children expanding their views of one another. 
Things to consider
 
● A literacy-based approach is a robust approach to elicit information about participants’ funds of identity in addition to arts-based methods that were used in previous studies. 
● Researchers or teachers should be thoughtful about the content of the culturally relevant texts they choose to ensure that they provide triggers for different kinds of funds of identity. 
● Culturally relevant texts provide a particularly meaningful context in which parents’ and children’s funds of identity can be shared and compared. 