
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A classroom is a complex and diverse environment, and language teachers’ work in these spaces is far more than just a collection of behaviors. The ways language teachers approach their teaching, interact with their students, and work through professional challenges are all shaped by their real-time thought and decision making. This monitoring and management of cognitive processes is referred to as 'metacognition.' Metacognition itself is made possible through command and control mental processes known as executive function. Whereas quality teaching practices are necessary for teachers to accomplish particular instructional goals, teachers’ ability to regulate and adapt their thinking—their metacognition—appears to be an equally important part of effective instruction. This study looked at connections between language teachers’ metacognition and the quality of their classroom practices. Our study used a visual statistical model called a structural equation model to test these links with a mixed group of K-12 language teachers in the United States. We found evidence that teachers’ metacognition had a strong influence on whether these teachers also reported using impactful practices in their teaching. 
What the researchers did
 
● Over one year, the researchers recruited 937 language teachers from elementary, middle, and high schools around the United States. This sample included bilingual teachers, English as a Second Language teachers, and teachers of languages other than English. 
● The participants responded to direct tasks measuring their executive function and a survey assessing their metacognition. They also rated their teaching behaviors using an established measurement of impactful teaching practices (Tripod 7Cs). 
● The data were first tested for their statistical properties and to ensure they were appropriate for analysis. Once data were refined, the links between teachers’ executive function, their resulting metacognition, and their reported teaching behaviors were tested. 
● Two models were tested to compare which one better represented the interface between adaptive teacher thought and classroom teaching behavior.  
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers found that executive function is an important precursor to teachers’ metacognitive potential. 
● Overall, executive function helped language teachers direct their attention appropriately, regulate their thinking, tolerate change, and solve problems in different circumstances. 
● Language teacher metacognition was a strong and reliable predictor of the impactful teaching practices teachers reported in three main categories: personal support, curricular support, and academic press (i.e., challenge). 
● First, metacognition influenced the degree to which teachers reported providing support, encouraging ownership, and responding to students’ needs. 
● There was also evidence that metacognition influenced how teachers reported working to structure lessons that generate and maintain student engagement. 
● Finally, metacognition was an important predictor of the ways teachers reported creating classroom conditions that challenge students and promote productive, on-task learning behaviors. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers’ executive function is an important background factor that allows teachers to navigate and perform successfully in new, challenging, or complex situations. 
● Metacognition helps teachers monitor classroom events and adopt practices that maximize clarity, structure learning content coherently, involve and challenge learners, and build supportive and attentive relationships. 
● Promoting teacher metacognition may positively impact the quality of teachers’ instruction and help them address the complexities and uncertainties they face in the classroom. 