
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The aspiration of Spanish s at the end of a syllable, which sounds like an h, takes place in approximately half of the Spanish-speaking world. This represents a challenge for second language (L2) Spanish learners who might expect a more prototypical s sound. Recent studies have shown that less advanced learners often misidentify aspiration as an f rather than an s sound when asked what they perceive the sound to be, but greater exposure to aspiration through study abroad experiences tends to result in more accurate perception. Linguists also know that native speakers associate variation in sounds with social meaning. For example, native Spanish speakers connect aspiration to friendliness, a lower social status, and a Caribbean place of origin. However, relatively little is known about how learners link social meaning to sounds in a second language. In the present article, the researchers used a matched-guise test, in which the same voices produced different versions of sounds, to explore this question. More specifically, they sought to determine whether L2 Spanish learners associate aspiration with social properties based on factors like proficiency, classroom instruction, and exposure to aspiration. Results showed that advanced learners were more sensitive to social information associated with aspirated s. 
What the researchers did
 
● 76 L2 Spanish learners in the United States listened to a wide range of native voices, five of which were presented once with the standard s sound and once with aspiration. 
● Learners were asked to evaluate each speaker socially (for example, how intelligent, nice, and down-to-earth the speaker sounded), guess where the speaker was from, and provide an optional written comment. 
What the researchers found
 A statistical analysis of the voices presented with s and aspiration showed the following: 
● Advanced learners were more sensitive to the social information indexed by aspiration 
● Advanced listeners who completed a Phonetics course were significantly more likely to categorize aspirating speakers as Caribbean 
● Those who studied abroad in aspirating regions recognized a relationship between the sound and social status 
Things to consider
 
● Based on these results, the researchers contend that learners must reach more advanced levels of proficiency before they are able to connect aspiration with social factors, but classroom instruction helps learners identify variation in pronunciation with specific geographic regions in the Spanish-speaking world. 
● Additionally, more subtle connections between sounds and social factors like status appear to improve during study abroad experiences, as learners gain greater exposure and sensitivity to the people who tend to use specific sounds. 