
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Words have different grammatical functions; they belong to different parts of speech. Sometimes, a given word form can belong to different parts of speech depending on its use or context. For example, the word “rent” can be a verb, as in “we rent a car for our trip” or a noun, as in “the rent for this house is high”. In German, any verb can be regularly turned into a same sounding noun by a grammatical rule, which we call conversion. The German writing system, however, gives an additional cue whether a word has a verb or a noun reading. All nouns like “Buch” (book), or “Liebe” (love) are always spelled with a capital first letter. All other parts of speech (including verbs) are spelled with lower-case initial letters. In the sentence “Die Miete ist sehr hoch” (the rent is very high), for instance, the word “Miete” (the rent) is a noun and therefore written with a capital. In the written form, all nouns in German thus provide an additional cue regarding the part of speech to which they belong. In our research, we are interested in how words are structured and organized in our minds. We asked how related forms such as “the rent” (noun) and “we rent” (verb) are stored in our minds. Are they independent representations? Or is there just one representation for all of them that is very flexible in its use? We also asked if the spelling helps to differentiate between a noun reading and a verb reading of otherwise identical words. We tested how much a recognition of a phrase like wir mieten (we rent) can be speeded up by phrases that preceded it and that contained an identical word in either the same or a different function, for instance sie mieten (they rent), wir wollen mieten (we want to rent), das Mieten (the renting), or die Mieten (the rents). The principle is based on a well-known effect that the more similar two words are, the faster can people recognize the second one, if they read them in succession. We compared the results of the present study to an almost identical former study in which such capitalization cues were avoided (all words were presented in upper-case letters throughout, for instance MIETEN). 
What the researchers did
 
● 72 native speakers of German were recruited as participants, aged between 18-46, together with 72 advanced learners of German with Czech as their native language (aged between 18-45). 
● Participants were asked to read short phrases on a computer screen and to decide whether they think the phrase was grammatically correct or not by pressing one of two corresponding buttons. 
● We tested how speed and accuracy of participants’ responses to a phrase like wir mieten (we rent) were affected directly after reading a phrase sharing an identical form but with a different grammatical function. 
● We compared the influence of five different grammatical uses of a single word-form like sie mieten (they rent), wir wollen mieten (we want to rent), das Mieten (the renting), mit den zwei Mieten (with the two rents). 
● We compared the results to a previous study where orthographic cues (upper vs. lower case) were avoided. 
What the researchers found
 
● No influence of the orthographic cues (lower vs. upper case) were found in 4 of the 5 conditions: o Response to phrases containing verbs like wir mieten (we rent) were fastest when the exact same phrase was presented before or when it was also a verb but paired with a different pronoun, for example sie spielen (they play), and they were slowest when the phrase before contained a countable noun with an identical form like mit den zwei Spielen (with the two games). They were in-between when the phrase contained infinitives (wir wollen spielen, ‘we want to play’). 
● Orthographic cues influenced the responses for nouns derived by a grammatical rule (das Mieten, ‘the renting): o When the additional orthographic cue was given (capital initial letter) they behaved like typical nouns. If this cue was absent (previous study) such converted forms behaved like infinitives. 
● The general pattern of results was the same for learners and native speakers. 
Things to consider
 
● In the study, both groups of participants, (advanced) learners and native speakers, showed the same pattern of responses. We therefore conclude that they rely on the same principles when organizing their mental representations of words, at least for the investigated word forms in German. 
● More research is needed, for instance to investigate the time-course of establishing word categories in the learners’ mind when acquiring a language. 