
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In order to develop their practice, languages teachers need detailed feedback about the quality of their classroom teaching. Students have extensive, first-hand experience of their languages lessons and they can offer direct feedback to their teachers that is cheap and easy to collect. This research focused on developing a student survey tool that languages teachers can use to help evaluate their own teaching. In this study, a survey was designed to collect information about secondary school students’ experiences of modern language lessons. The questionnaire was informed by research into effective language teaching approaches. Students of French aged 12-13 completed the survey. Survey results were collated for each school and reported back to the head of languages. Heads of languages departments reported that the survey tool was useful as a means with which to identify high quality languages teaching and to understand what their team could work to improve. Across all schools, the survey results suggest three areas for future development: 1) teachers’ responsiveness to the needs and interests of their students; 2) the motivation and engagement of students in language lessons; and 3) the extent to which students are encouraged to adopt strategic approaches to language tasks.  What the researcher did 
● I made changes to an existing student survey available from the Colorado Education Initiative in order to make it specific to modern languages teaching. 
● I recruited fourteen secondary schools in the South-East of England to take part in the study. 
● 1370 students of French as a second language aged 12-13 completed the survey. 41 of these students’ French teachers also completed a survey to tell me about their teaching approaches. 
● I gave each Head of Languages a report containing: 1) the average survey results for their own school; and 2) the average survey results for all students in the study. Then, I interviewed six Heads of Languages to find out what they thought about the survey. 
What the researchers found
 
● The survey was reliable and correlated with other measures of effective teaching. 
● Students gave low scores for student behaviour and engagement in language lessons. 
● Very few students reported learning with authentic resources or experiences of being taught strategies for tackling language learning tasks. 
● Teachers valued the subject-specific survey feedback for professional learning. 
Things to consider
 
● These findings suggest aspects of modern languages teaching that may currently be underdeveloped in England’s classrooms and that have the potential to improve students’ engagement and attainment in language learning. 
● Modern languages teachers and teacher educators might consider how to include more authentic resources in lessons and how to further develop students’ awareness and use of language learning strategies.  
● The study shows that teachers valued the subject-specific feedback from this student survey and found it useful to identify priorities for their future planning. 
● The survey developed in this study is intended to be used formatively by teachers who are interesting in interrogating their own practice. 
● Student surveys may also offer useful information as part of more formal evaluations of teaching practices, but they should only be used in combination with a range of other data sources that are more sensitive to contextual variation. 
● A limitation of the survey tool was that it only included one item related to the target language culture. Future versions of the survey should include more items focussed on the development of intercultural understanding in modern languages lessons.  