
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Raising language teachers’ awareness of corpus-based instruction is a prerequisite for enabling them to help learners work with corpora. Linguistically, the term 'corpus' (plural of corpora) refers to a large collection of texts normally stored and processed electronically. Thus, corpus-based instruction means making use of text corpora in language teaching. At present we have little understanding of language teachers' uses of corpora after receiving corpus literacy instruction. This research explored Arab English language student teachers’ immediate perceptions of corpus literacy instruction, and also their uses of corpora two years after receiving corpus literacy instruction. The teachers reported very positive immediate and long-term perceptions of corpus literacy instruction, but it was found that such instruction has not brought about all the desired changes in their long-term uses of online corpora as a linguistic and pedagogical resource, or their attitudes towards doing corpus-based research. What the researcher did 
● The researcher integrated a corpus literacy component into a 15-week graduate computer-assisted language learning course he was teaching to a group of PhD student teachers at an Arab university. 
● The corpus literacy component was taught in three academic weeks (total time = 9 teaching hours) and it aimed at: a) familiarizing the student teachers with online corpora and corpus tools; b) helping them understand corpus analysis and the indirect and direct applications of corpora― which means using corpora as a basis for language learning material design, and involving learners in accessing and working with corpora, respectively; and c) introducing them to pedagogy-oriented corpus linguistics research. 
● After teaching the corpus linguistics part, the researcher conducted focus group interviews with the student teachers to explore their perceptions of corpus literacy instruction and their expected uses of corpus tools. 
● Two years later, 19 of these student teachers responded to a follow-up questionnaire which explored their views on including corpus literacy instruction into graduate language teacher education programmes, how frequently they used online corpora since completing the course, and the extent to which they used them for language learning, teaching, and research purposes. What the researcher found 
● All the student teachers had very positive immediate and long-term perceptions of corpus literacy instruction and its benefits, and they strongly supported corpus literacy integration into language teacher education. 
● However, a few of them were not satisfied with the practical component in the corpus literacy part taught. 
● The teachers’ immediate responses showed their negative responses towards using corpora as a language learning resource (i.e., relying on corpus consultations as compared to using dictionaries) and doing corpus research, but they reported optimistic expectations regarding corpus-based language instruction (i.e., implementing the data-driven learning technique in their classes). 
● The teachers’ early negative views of using corpora as a linguistic resource were also confirmed by their reported long-term frequencies of using them. 
● The reported long-term actual uses of corpora indicate that only some teachers were able to introduce online corpora to their students after returning to their workplaces.  
● Some few teachers were also found to start developing a positive attitude towards doing corpus-based language teaching research. 
Things to consider
 
● Though the corpus literacy instruction has not greatly enhanced the teachers’ practical uses of corpora, there are important benefits gained from it, including: raising teachers' awareness of important corpus uses, enabling some of them to help students learn about corpora, and stimulating others’ interest in doing corpus-based research. 
● These positive gains could be regarded as a starting point for better near-future developments in popularizing the use of corpora and also in fostering corpus literacy instruction in the target context. 
● The findings indicate that popularizing the direct use of corpus in language classes requires a collaboration between language textbook designers and online corpus developers.  
● It is likely that exposing teachers to longer or more intensive corpus linguistics instruction may bring about better immediate and long-term responses in their uses of corpora for teaching and research purposes in particular. 