
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many teachers strive to encourage active learner engagement. Research has suggested that one way to achieve this is by giving students choice over what or how to learn. However, it is unclear how teachers can do this in practice. In this study, we designed two discussion tasks, each of which offered learners a different type of choice over the activity. One task instructed students to discuss and agree on three items among given options (+constraint task). The other task instructed students to generate the options by themselves, discuss, and agree on three items (-constraint task). Thai university students performed each task in a group of three, and we compared their engagement in each task. Higher levels of engagement were observed when students performed the -constraint task. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 23 Thai (15 male, 8 female) and 1 Korean (1 female) learners of English as a foreign language, aged between 19 to 22, and their proficiency level was approximately CEFR B1/B2. 
● The students were enrolled in an academic writing course at a university in Bangkok, and at the time of the study, they had been in the course for two months. 
● The students were randomly assigned to a group of three. Four groups completed the +constraint task while the 
● other four groups completed the -constraint task. Three weeks later, they completed the other task. In both tasks, students were given two-minute preparation time before the discussion and were instructed to spend as much time as they needed to reach agreement. 
● Their task performance was audio-recorded and transcribed to measure the behavioral, cognitive, and social dimensions of task engagement. A questionnaire was administered to measure emotional engagement. 
What the researchers found
 
● Higher levels of engagement overall were observed when students performed the -constraint task: Students took more turns when discussing (behavioral dimension); negotiated meaning, self-corrected or reformulated spoken words more frequently (cognitive dimension); spoke at the same time and completed each other’s sentences (social dimension). They also reported experiencing higher anxiety and enjoyment. 
● In both tasks, students used a similar amount of time and words (behavioral dimension) to complete the tasks and produced a similar amount of backchanneling (social dimension). 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that students engage more when performing a task that allows them to personalize some elements in the content for discussion, as opposed to a task with pre-determined content for discussion. 
● This study indicated the possibility of experiencing both anxiety and enjoyment when students are highly engaged in a task. This suggests that teachers be mindful of students’ affective states and create a supportive learning environment. 
● More research is needed to further investigate links between engagement and (in particular, negative) emotions. 