
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has shown that model texts, a form of written feedback consisting of native-like texts that learners compare with their original composition, are highly valuable language teaching tools for adult learners. However, the language learning potential of model texts has been under-represented in studies on foreign language (FL) children. In particular, there is a need to assess whether potential positive effects of models are sustained over time. The aim of the present study was to analyze what FL primary school children noticed and incorporated during a four-stage collaborative writing task. The findings showed that the children receiving the model texts noticed many lexical (word-level) and content-related features from the model, and incorporated lexical, spelling-related, formal and discursive issues into their subsequent texts, thus enriching their written production. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 19 pairs of 11-12-year-old Spanish English as a Foreign Language learners with an elementary proficiency level. 
● The learners were randomly assigned to a model group, who received a model text as a form of feedback; and a self-correction group, who did not receive a model, but self-edited their texts. 
● The study was carried out over a period of three weeks and consisted of a four-stage collaborative writing task involving: (a) noticing of linguistic problems while writing a story based on a picture prompt (Stage 1); (b) comparison of their texts with a native-speaker model/self-correction (Stage 2); (c) rewriting of their original output (Stage 3); and (d) writing a story based on a picture prompt similar to the first one (Stage 4). 
● The first stage took place on the first day, the second stage on the following day, and the third stage was held one week later to reduce the chance of participants recalling the model text and copying from memory. The final stage served as an after-instruction test and was performed a week after stage 3. 
● Given that writing in collaboration seems to increase learners’ linguistic knowledge, all tasks were carried out in pairs. 
What the researchers found
 
● When composing a narrative text in collaboration, the child learners attended mostly to grammar, vocabulary, and spelling. 
● At the comparison stage, the model group noticed more lexical and content-related features than the self-correction group. 
● The children in the model group did incorporate previously noticed features into their subsequent writings. 
Things to consider
 
● The use of model texts can be useful to draw children’s attention to vocabulary and content in the first place, but also to other aspects of writing such as grammar, spelling and discursive elements. 
● Models also proved to be a rich resource that helped students to autonomously search for solutions and even some of this learned knowledge was retained and later incorporated subsequent revisions. 