
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many parents who raise their children in a language not spoken by the wider community wonder whether their children will come to speak both languages fluently. They may also want to know about the effects of bilingualism on later foreign language learning. A number of studies have shown that, as adults, early bilingual children usually speak the community language like monolinguals, that is, people who acquired only one language before the age of 6. By contrast, their ability to speak the family language largely depends on how regularly they used it. Comparatively little is known about foreign language acquisition in early bilinguals. This study focused on the pronunciation of adults who acquired their family language from birth, the community language in early childhood (age 0-6) and English as a foreign language (first learned between 6-11). Results showed that the bilinguals differentiated between their two early-acquired languages, although the family language was affected to some extent by the community language. More importantly, the bilinguals had an advantage when learning English as a foreign language, that is, their pronunciation was closer to that of English monolinguals than that of speakers who grew up with only Italian. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study investigated pronunciation in the three languages of 20 early bilingual adults in Italian (the family language), German (the community language), and English (the foreign language; first learned between 6 and 11). 
● Participants were asked to describe a picture sequence in each of their three languages, each containing words beginning with the sounds /p, b, k, g/ followed by a vowel (e.g., bar, party). 
● The length of the initial consonants (measured as ‘voice onset time’) produced by the early bilinguals was compared to those produced by monolingual German, Italian, and English speakers. 
What the researchers found
 In German 
● In German, the community language, the bilingual speakers performed on par with German monolinguals. In Italian 
● The bilinguals pronounced consonants in Italian, their family language, in a slightly German-like fashion. Nevertheless, they maintained a difference between their two languages (they produced different consonant lengths in Italian and in German). In English 
● The Italian monolinguals produced consonants in English with a strong influence from Italian. 
● In contrast, the monolingual German speakers were on target for most consonants, likely due to the closeness of German to English. 
● The bilinguals produced consonants in English close to English monolingual controls, and were closer-to-target than the Italian speakers. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that bilinguals speak German, their community language, in the same way as monolingually-raised German speakers. Although their family language, Italian, showed a small amount of influence from German, they were able to keep their two languages separate. 
● When learning English, the bilinguals were not disadvantaged by their knowledge of Italian, and their pronunciation was more target-like than that of English language learners from Italy. 
● Different language combinations could lead to different results. This should be investigated further to allow for generalizations over the heterogeneous bilingual population. 
● In short, early bilinguals with exposure to more than one language before the age of 6 can keep their two languages apart, and they are not disadvantaged when learning a third language. 