
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many students may experience difficulties in maintaining their interest in or commitment to learning a second or foreign language. Language learning may become more demanding if one cannot properly develop initial motivation or find personal meaning to continue it. Previous research has shown us that something needs to be done for students gradually losing their interest in learning English as a second or foreign language. Many of them frequently suffer from the demanding nature of English learning at school. In this study, students were encouraged to write about a clear vision of what they would like to achieve by learning the language. The writing activities for enhancing motivation were conducted in two ways: individual or group. Those activities that were found to have a positive influence on the participants’ English learning motivation and achievement, and individual writing proved to be a more effective way to benefit language learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 264 Grade 10 (age 15-16) high school students in South Korea. They started to learn English as a foreign language at school from Grade 3 (age 8-9) and took 50-minute English classes four days a week. A total of 92.5% responded that they had taken private English lessons such as cram school, tutoring, and/or online English course. 
● An activity workbook with reading and writing sections was used. The topics included English learning and future career, Korean high school students’ English learning motivation, image training for English use (writing or drawing), and a self-diagnostic test for attitudes toward English learning. With the workbook written in the participants’ L1, Korean, the students wrote (and talked in the case of group writing) in Korean. 
● The students were divided into two groups. One group engaged in “individual writing” guided by a series of questions in their workbooks (e.g., reasons for learning English and their ideal images of using English). The other carried out “group writing,” including group discussions and writing of group members’ opinions. The activities lasted 30-40 minutes once a week for six weeks. 
● Using the same questionnaire, students’ motivational changes in English learning were measured immediately before the first activity and immediately after the last. 
What the researchers found
 
● The students’ English learning motivation was enhanced after they participated in the writing activities. Particularly, they showed stronger desires for achieving their ideal images of using English. The writing activities seemed to help students develop more vivid ideal images of using English for their future jobs, daily lives, or free time, and become motivated to realize those ideals. 
● Individual writing was more beneficial than group writing for improving motivation and promoting more successful English learning. The influence of learners’ desires for English-speaking ideal images became more powerful for their intended efforts and achievement in English learning among the students in the individual group. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, the students benefited more from the form of individual writing when it comes to their motivation for English learning. The reason seems to be related to the power of self-reflection of individual writing. In group writing, the students shared and discussed their opinions orally while writing them down. In contrast, the students in the individual writing condition had more time to quietly think and write about their answers, which may allow them to have access to deeper self-reflection. 
● It is suggested that the writing activities related to ideal images of using a second or foreign language can be utilized for the learners of the language to be more highly motivated in their learning by wanting to realize those ideals. Even though it was not dealt with in this study, the inherent enjoyment of using a language can be another focus of the writing activities for enhancing motivation. For example, students can be encouraged to think and write about how they can relate their current interests to English, such as their fondness for rap music or reading English language literature. 