
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The number of students learning the language of instruction as a second language (L2) has increased worldwide, and it has been shown that L2 students tend to have more difficulty reading and writing in their L2 compared to their L1 peers. Learning vocabulary in an L2 is a foundation for literacy development and it can be a major hurdle for many students. Therefore, promoting students' L2 vocabulary is of immense importance. But how can we promote vocabulary appropriately, especially in light of the increasing heterogeneity of the student population, including problem behaviors? This study evaluates a self-developed, multi-component storytelling intervention based on the Dual Coding Theory (DCT; combining images and expressions in language learning), to promote receptive and expressive vocabulary, as well as the depth of that vocabulary. The words to be learned and additional facts about these words were embedded in self-written stories adapted to the students' interests. The results showed that all students, including the behaviorally challenged learners, were able to increase their vocabulary in a very short period of time. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were nine primary school students learning German as L2 (age between 7-10; five female students and four male students). Their first language backgrounds were Turkish, Arabic and Albanian. All students performed low in a German vocabulary test and three students showed additional problem behaviors. 
● Learners were divided into three groups and were fostered with the storytelling three times a week for 25 minutes each session over four weeks. 
● There were a total of 20 words to be trained and always five of the 20 words were included in each session. The learners sat in a semi-circle around the teacher in both stages. Each session consisted of two stages: 1) Introducing the vocabulary with flashcards showing the word and a picture. 2) The words were then embedded into different stories which were told to the learners. When a word appeared, the matching flashcard was used, and the story went on. 
● After each session, the learners’ expressive and receptive vocabulary knowledge was measured. In addition, whether the learners could also remember facts about these words from the stories on which there was no explicit emphasis was also tested. After each assessment learners could track their learning progress while drawing in their scores each time in a graph and the three groups were awarded for improvement. 
What the researchers found
 
● All learners got successively and equally better in 1) receptive vocabulary, 2) expressive vocabulary and 3) vocabulary facts which were not directly trained. Thus, this multi-component storytelling can foster learning items in L2 directly and indirectly in the focused student group. 
● These findings are in line with the DCT stating that combining pictures with expressions in language learning is the best way to improve vocabulary. 
● No differences could be found between students with and without problem behavior, different language backgrounds, and scores on the German vocabulary test. Thus, all students profited equally from the intervention which is an important point regarding the today’s heterogeneous student population which poses great challenges to teachers, especially in terms of designing adequate interventions. 
Things to consider
 
● Storytelling seems to be an appropriate method to train vocabulary intensively while it can be adapted to individual students’ needs and different topics. This high flexibility is important for school practice. 
● The preparation of the materials takes some time, but from experience this is manageable. 
● The groups promoted were quite small and there is no previous experience of doing storytelling with large groups (>8, in other storytelling studies we had group sizes up to 8 students) or even whole classes. 