
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Recent studies have shown that second language (L2) learners tend to repeat abstract grammatical structures that they have recently heard or read. For example, they would be more likely to write “The frog gave the leaf to the rabbit” after reading “The king loaned his crown to a servant” since both follow the same grammatical pattern. This phenomenon is known as structural priming. Structural priming can promote L2 production of difficult or more advanced structures. Open questions remain regarding whether structural priming leads to long-term learning and whether the learning effect can be enhanced by a richer context. This study investigated structural priming of the Chinese Ba-construction in L2 learners of Chinese with a focus on whether the learning outcomes were improved by the visual context with which the target structure was presented. L2 learners of Chinese heard and repeated prime sentences targeting the Chinese Ba-construction (e.g., nvren Ba men guanshang le, ‘The woman closed the door’), which were presented with either a picture context, a video context, or no visual context. Both picture and video contexts led L2 learners to produce more target structures and the video context produced stronger and longer-lasting learning effects than the picture context.  
What the researchers did
 
● 120 L2 learners of Chinese, aged 19 to 25 years old, participated in the study. They were enrolled in a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate programs (e.g. Medicine, Engineering, Management, and Business) at a university in Northwest China. Their mother tongues included Arabic, Urdu, English, Thai, Korean, Malay, French, Hindi, etc. Their average length of residence in China was 23.97 months, and average length of learning Chinese was 22.7 months. They had all completed at least one year of mandatory Chinese classes (6 hours per week). Sixty-eight of them had received the HSK III certificate and the other 52 had passed HSK IV. The learners were randomly assigned into 4 groups with 30 in each. 
● All the learners completed a pretest to assess their production of the Chinese Ba-construction: learners described some pictures by using either an SVO (Subject + Verb + Object, e.g., nvren guanshang le men, ‘The woman closed the door’) or an S-Ba-OV structure (e.g., nvren Ba men guanshang le). 
● After the pretest, three groups of learners completed a priming task, wherein they were presented with sentences containing the Ba-construction both visually and auditorily. For the text group, no visual context was provided; for the picture group, the sentences were accompanied by isolated pictures; and for the video group, the sentences were embedded in a video episode extracted from Mr. Bean. Participants were instructed to repeat the sentences upon hearing and seeing them. The remaining group did not complete any priming task. 
● Immediately after the priming task and again after a three-day interval, all participants completed tests quite similar to the pretest, which reevaluated their ability to produce the Ba-construction.  

What the researchers found
 
● In the test immediately after the priming task, those learners exposed to the Ba-construction produced more target structure as compared with their own pretests. Additionally, the increase in the video and the picture groups was greater than that of the text (zero-context) group. 
● Only the video group continued producing higher rates of the Ba-construction after a delay of 3 days. Moreover, the increased production retained regardless of whether the test context was a video or a series of pictures.  
● For the participants who did not participate in the priming task, the production of the Ba-construction remained unchanged in all three tests.  
Things to consider
 
● In this study, L2 learners’ production of the Ba-construction was effectively enhanced by hearing and repeating the structure in a priming task. This suggests that classroom activities that elicit structural priming should be encouraged, to facilitate L2 syntactic development. 
● The study demonstrated that that visual contexts increase the learning benefits of exposure to the target structure, bringing to the fore the importance of teaching new grammatical structures along with engaging, continuous and multi-modal contexts. 