
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Translanguaging theory understands that multilinguals do not speak or switch between separate ‘named’ languages (e.g., Chinese and English) as their everyday norms; instead, they select, alter, mix and mesh various linguistic and other meaning-making resources strategically and purposefully to make sense of the world. Recently translanguaging has been increasingly valued as a language pedagogy that helps multilingual learners use their existing resources to develop the target language. Many teachers, however, consider translanguaging pedagogy merely as allowing learners to use their first languages or to translate in class. Such understanding reflects a confusion between the notion of ‘translating’ and ‘translanguaging’ and a lack of understanding of what resources multilinguals have and how they use their resources to learn languages. This study explored how a university lecturer and a graduate student used translating and translanguaging practices to solve a linguistic issue in a collaborative dialogue. It showed how translating and translanguaging were different practices and yet closely connected for multilinguals’ language learning. It also revealed how the learner and the teacher drew upon resources beyond languages for collaborative language learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● The authors of this article, Julie and Kailin, are the participants and the researchers of the study. Julie is a university lecturer in Melbourne and Kailin is her former student from China. They both have multilingual backgrounds and share interest in language education for minority students and translanguaging pedagogies. 
● Discovering Chinese students often misuse the connective ‘Besides, …’, Julie texted Kailin one evening to seek her understanding of this issue. After three hours of dialogue over text messages which involved multilingual practices to explore the meaning and use of ‘Besides, …’, they developed a deeper understanding of this connective. 
● Later, Julie and Kailin explored the notion of ‘translating’, ‘translanguaging’ and ‘collaborative dialogue’ to reflect on their learning of this connective. While ‘translating’ is traditionally understood as transmitting ideas between ‘named’ languages, it overlaps with ‘translanguaging’ when perceived as a process of creating new ideas through selecting, altering, combining and/or resisting different linguistic and meaning-making resources. ‘Collaborative dialogue’ welcomes these multilingual practices and facilitates learning via not only expert-to-novice support but also mutual assistance. Julie and Kailin used these notions to analyze their dialogue and problem-solving strategies. 
What the researchers found
 
● Kailin’s discovery of an equivalent Chinese word ‘再说’ [zài shuō] to ‘Besides, …’ involved more than text-to-text translation between Chinese and English. It was enabled by a translanguaging process, where she enacted knowledge in Chinese and English together with learning strategies (e.g., moving from word-to-word translation to translation that captures main ideas, testing hypothesis, comparing nuances between words), educational histories and social experiences to create a scenario based on a given sentence for the Chinese word to emerge. 
● Kailin’s use of translating and translanguaging to develop her understanding of ‘Besides, …’ was facilitated by Julie’s translanguaging practices. Julie not only lifted her knowledge of Chinese and English to start this inquiry and respond to Kailin’s hypothesis of ‘Besides, …’, she also brought in her critical stance on social justice in minority language education and professional knowledge as a dialogic teacher to shuttle between roles of ‘expert’, ‘dialogic partner’ and ‘learner’ throughout their exchange. These practices enabled Julie to move away from an authoritarian position and created spaces for Kailin to enact all her resources for language learning. 
Things to consider
 
● A rich view of how translanguaging works for language learning and teaching requires (a) looking beyond the visibility/audibility of different languages; and (b) understanding the complexity of multilingual communication, learners’ and teachers’ diverse knowledges, practices, values and attitudes towards multilingual communication. 
● Developing these understandings requires shifting the existing asymmetrical teacher-learner power relations and creating spaces for joint exploration and collaborative knowledge building. Teachers and learners can create these spaces together through their everyday dialogical interaction. 
● It is important for teachers and learners to make explicit and develop knowledge of multilingual learning practices together. Teachers can model translanguaging strategies and offer terminologies for learners to discuss their own practices. In turn, learners may learn to identify practices that enhance learning and offer their own texts as models. 