
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study explored how second language (L2) writing tutorials are negotiated and how language beliefs can influence the success of these negotiations. Understanding how language beliefs contribute to the success of L2 writing tutorial is crucial for teacher and tutor training. The data consisted of audio-recorded writing tutorials and interviews with two L2 doctorate students and a first language English tutor. The results of the qualitative analysis suggested that internalized beliefs about standard English language influence the extent to which the two students were able to negotiate literacy and impacted the success of the tutorial sessions. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher audio recorded L2 tutorial sessions with two L2 doctorate students and analyzed the interactional moves of the discourse. 
● The researcher interviewed the two students and the English tutor about their language beliefs. She replayed segments of the audio-recorded tutorials and asked them to comment on whether there were any misunderstandings. 
● The researcher interpreted the results by making connections between interactional moves in the tutorials and the language beliefs expressed in the interviews. 
What the researchers found
 
● Beliefs about standard English can influence the extent to which students are able to negotiate literacy in L2 writing tutorials. In this study, the L2 student who expressed a critical understanding of the role of standard language in academic studies was able to co-construct meaning on equal footing with her tutor, as demonstrated in her greater ability to initiate discussion, hold the floor, resist tutor suggestions, and expand meaning negotiations. By comparison, the student who seemed to internalize deficient characterizations of her English, rarely engaged in co-constructing meaning during her tutorial with the same tutor. 
● The interactional strategies employed by the tutor can either foster or hamper the success of the tutorial; The students perceived the tutorial interaction to be more successful when the tutor employed an exploratory orientation while negotiating revisions and was more open to the students’ multilingual literacy practices. In contrast, miscommunications and misunderstandings were more prevalent when the tutor adopted an integrative orientation to literacy and relied only on generic literacy practices to negotiate meanings. 
Things to consider
 
● Students who internalize strict language beliefs about the standard English might be inclined to focus on text revisions rather than negotiating literacy during L2 writing tutorials. 
● Tutor training can focus on meaning negotiation strategies and the extent to which these strategies afford or deny learning opportunities for multilingual writers. 
● Given that this study did not collect revision drafts, it is unclear how the students’ orientation to negotiate literacy during the tutorials influenced their subsequent text revisions and literacy practices. 
● Future studies can explore tutors’ language beliefs for greater insights into how meanings are negotiated in L2 writing tutorials. 