
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The relationship between study abroad and language learning motivation has been of interest to educators, researchers, and learners alike. Past research on this topic has often focused on the motivation to learn one language, in particular, English. However, recent research has mirrored the wide variety seen in languages being learned in a study-abroad context and the individuals learning them. To contribute to this recent line of work from an Asian context, the present study explored the changes in the language learning motivation of two Japanese university students learning two foreign languages during their time abroad in Taiwan. Interviews were conducted with each student before and during their overseas studies to understand their experiences and changes in language learning motivation. The study uncovers the complexity behind the fluctuations in motivation of each student, along with the joys and struggles of learning and maintaining balance with two languages competing for their attention. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were two Japanese university students, Satomi and Haruka (both pseudonyms) aged 18 and 19 whose first language was Japanese, and they began learning English when they were 13. They started learning Chinese after entering university. Satomi’s TOEFL score was 507, and Haruka’s score was 540 at the start of the study. 
● Satomi and Haruka went to Taiwan as part of a mandatory study abroad program in their second year of university for around ten months, during which they learned both English and Mandarin Chinese. 
● In-depth interviews were conducted twice before study abroad and once in Taiwan during their fifth month. Motivation graphs were also used as supplementary data, where each participant drew a line on a grid divided into months, with a motivation scale ranging from 0 to 5 to visually indicate changes in their motivation. 
● All the interviews were transcribed, and each utterance was carefully examined to provide an appropriate code that captured its central meaning. The codes were then re-examined and incorporated into a narrative representing each student’s experience studying abroad and changes in language learning motivation. The perspective of different timescales was also included in the analysis to gain an understanding of whether the motivation fluctuations found were a short-term surge/drop or affected their long-term motivation. 
What the researchers found
 
● The in-depth interviews and the construction of narratives of each learner were effective in helping to gain a more holistic understanding of the complexity of their experience of language learning, their personal feelings toward learning the two languages, and the intricate nuances behind the motivational changes that they experienced during their study abroad. By adding different timescales in the analysis, the surges and drops in motivation could be differentiated from short- or long-term motivational change. The narratives also showed how they formed images of their future selves using both English and Mandarin Chinese, which helped them sustain a level of motivation to keep learning the two languages. 
● The findings also highlighted the struggles that the learners experienced in learning two languages simultaneously, especially Satomi, who expressed both mental and physical concerns in her interview. 
● The support community built outside the classroom was deemed important as a safe space to practice English and Mandarin Chinese as well as for relieving stress. It was especially an important factor for Haruka, who became part of a community of Thai students early on and built strong friendships with the members. 
Things to consider
 
● The study shows that even the most motivated learners can struggle and feel stretched to the limit when learning multiple languages, reminding educators that study-abroad programs must be sensitive to such outcomes. 
● In-depth interviews, narratives, and the inclusion of timescales were useful in gaining an understanding of the complex experiences of language learning. This method could be considered in studies of various topics of interest in a number of contexts where a personal perspective and complexity of experience are yet to be uncovered. 
● With standard test scores not being available at appropriate intervals in this study to track linguistic growth with the learner’s motivational changes, future research combining such data would be of interest. 