
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Efficient and effective assessments of language proficiency are essential to foreign language research and pedagogy. The development of reliable, valid and practical assessments for placement, achievement, and diagnostic purposes has been a prominent challenge faced by Less Commonly Taught Languages (LCTLs) programs. To address this challenge, this study documented a corpus-driven, curriculum-based approach to developing an elicited imitation (EI, in which learners try to imitate a sentence they hear) test of Mandarin Chinese and demonstrated the quality of the test for placement, diagnosis, and achievement purposes. The outcome of this study fills a gap in the availability of Chinese proficiency tests that are specifically designed to measure L2 Chinese learning in university settings. This approach to assessing foreign language proficiency is useful for not only Chinese but other LCTLs as well in local institutional contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● Extracted a list of key vocabulary and grammatical structures from widely-used Chinese textbooks in US universities, 
● Created a list of EI 72 sentences to target key vocabulary and grammatical structures across three curricular levels, 
● Piloted the EI sentences to L2 Chinese learners and examined their quality placement, diagnosis and achievement purposes, and 
● Revised the EI sentences according to findings from the pilot. 
What the researchers found
 
● Scores on the curriculum-based EI test shows a strong correlation with scores on other research-oriented EI tests. 
● The EI test distinguished learners across the three curricular levels, showing its potential as a placement measure. 
● Chinese learners’ responses show useful information about their mastery of key vocabulary and grammatical structures, showing the potential of EI for diagnostic and achievement purposes. 
Things to consider
 
● This corpus-driven, curriculum-based approach to assessing foreign language proficiency is useful for not only Chinese but other LCTLs as well in local institutional contexts; however, test developers should have a list of key vocabulary and grammatical structures for their language curriculum. 
● Chinese language programs in US universities can either use or adapt this test to assess Chinese proficiency in their local contexts; however, a piloting project is recommended before use.