
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Language teacher anxiety is a previously studies area of second language teaching research. However, most studies so far have focused on studying foreign language anxiety in second language (L2) speaking teachers. In this paper, the researchers argue that it is important to address the issue of anxiety also in first language (L1) speaking teachers, with a broad consideration at the same time of the classroom environment, the working conditions, and the professional discourse. This study adopted investigated teachers’ perception of situations that generate anxiety by asking them to rank a set of classroom situations. Based on this the researchers were able to understand how language teachers interact with their profession by foregrounding teachers’ shared experience in relation to anxiety. Results identified three major perspectives that teachers have regarding what causes anxiety in their profession. The first perspective sees language teacher anxiety originating mostly from the lack of work/life balance, the second perspective from job performance and evaluation, and the third perspective from job security.   
What the researchers did
 
● We asked 45 Korean L1 teachers of Korean as a foreign language, working in Korean institutions, to sort a set of 47 statements depending on how much they felt the situation described in the statement to be relevant to themselves. 
● Each statement presented a situation that can be source of anxiety for a foreign language teacher. 
● Data were collected online. After the sorting task, participants were able to provide more explanation on what causes anxiety for them. 
● The researchers statistically analyzed the statement rankings from all participants and grouped teachers who sorted the statements in a similar fashion. 
● The statistical analysis found three main groups; teachers in the same group share a similar perspective on what causes anxiety for them. 
What the researchers found
 
● A first group of teachers perceives anxiety originating mainly from their heavy workload, and from the lack of balance between professional and private life. 
● A second group of teachers feels anxiety in situations where supervisors and students evaluate them, or when they are compared to colleagues. 
● A third group of teachers considers their anxiety deriving mostly from situations where they have to teach an unfamiliar class, and from the precarity of their teaching position. 
● Most teachers reported a feeling of anxiety in situations arising in the broad working and professional environment, more than in classroom-teaching contexts. 
Things to consider
 
● The results of this study call for action at different levels to address the issue of language teacher anxiety. 
● Institutions can introduce mentoring programs and promote peer support. 
● Institutions can identify core teaching tasks and administrative tasks and hire professional staff to deal with administrative matters to reduce teachers’ workload. 
● Language program coordinators can adopt a teacher evaluation framework based on a teaching portfolio instead of repeated classroom observation. 
● In countries where these do not already exist, the formation of professional associations can support teachers in bargaining better working conditions and contracts. 