
What this research was about and why it is important 
 To speak a second language (L2) fluently, repeating the same speaking task can be effective. However, we do not know whether it is better to repeat exactly the same task in a ‘block’, or mix up (‘interleave’) different tasks to spread out the repetition. This study compared the effectiveness of blocked and interleaved task repetition schedules. Japanese university students provided an oral narration of cartoons, under either a blocked (Day 1: Task A-A-A, Day 2: Task B-B-B, Day 3: Task C-C-C) or interleaved (Day 1: Task A-B-C, Day 2: Task A-B-C, Task Day 3: A-B-C) schedule. The blocked repetition was more effective than interleaved repetition for fluency development. What the researcher did 
● Participants were 68 Japanese university students, with at least 6 years’ experience of studying English. 
● Participants were assigned to either a blocked or an interleaved practice group. They engaged in speaking training outside of their regular classes, performing oral narrative tasks in which they described six-frame cartoon stories, three times a day for three consecutive days. 
● A control group participated only in the pretest-posttest sessions. 
● In the blocked practice, participants narrated Cartoon A three times on day 1, Cartoon B three times on day 2, and Cartoon C three times on day 3. 
● In the interleaved practice, participants narrated different cartoons (Cartoon A, B, and C) once every day. 
● Fluency development was measured by a pretest and a posttest (six-frame cartoon stories that were different to the training), administered one day after the final (i.e., third) speaking training session. What the researcher found 
● During the training, the blocked practice group performed the narration more fluently (e.g., faster articulation, fewer pauses within clauses), particularly on the third performance each day, compared to the interleaved practice groups. 
● On the posttest, blocked practice resulted in greater fluency development (faster articulation and shorter pauses within clauses) than interleaved practice. Blocked practice also resulted in pausing more frequently before a clause, which might have served fluency during the clause. 
Things to consider
 
● In the current study, the same tasks (Cartoon A, B, C) were repeated exactly three times in both blocked and interleaved practice schedules. However, changing the order and distribution of task repetition can be done in different ways, and these can impact the efficacy of speaking training. When deciding how to distribute tasks, two factors can be considered: (a) task variability and (b) task sequence. For instance, there are four possible schedule options: 1. Task AAA-AAA-AAA (no task variability, blocked) 2. Task AAA-BBB-CCC (moderate task variability, blocked) 3. Task ABC-ABC-ABC (moderate task variability, interleaved) 4. Task ABC-DEF-GHI (high task variability, interleaved) The current study showed that the second option was better than the third for fluency development.