
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Self-regulated learning (SRL) is a dynamic and cyclical process in which learners use a range of strategies to help them actively control their mental states, beliefs, observable behaviors, and learning environments. Using SRL strategies (e.g., goal orientation, task value) requires motivational support to help learners initiate, maintain, and increase learning efforts. So far, the impact of motivational factors on the process of second language (L2) writing has been a neglected area of research. This study, framed within sociocognitive theory, investigated the contribution of motivational beliefs and self-efficacy on different parts of self-regulated learning strategies in English as a foreign language (EFL) writing. Quantitative data collected from self-report questionnaires revealed that the expectancy, value, and goal orientation components of motivation beliefs were important for using different dimensions of SRL strategies, which contributes to developing more strategic self-regulated writers. Findings of this study are expected to extend the application of self-regulated learning theory to L2 writing, as well as inform curriculum design and writing instruction for cultivating proactive learners.  
What the researchers did
 
● A total of 389 undergraduate students were recruited from four medium-ranking universities in mainland China. 
● Self-reported questionnaires were used to collect data about motivational beliefs (extrinsic and intrinsic goal orientation, task value, and control of learning belief), self-efficacy (linguistic self-efficacy, performance self-efficacy, and self-regulatory efficacy) and different dimensions of SRL strategies (cognition, metacognition, social behavior, and motivational regulation) in EFL writing. 
● Statistical analyses were used to evaluate how motivational beliefs and self-efficacy predicted different dimensions of SRL strategies.  
What the researchers found
 
● EFL students’ motivational beliefs and self-efficacy were closely related to different dimensions of SRL strategies. Task value and intrinsic goal orientation had moderate relationships with cognitive and metacognitive strategies. This suggests that students who approach their course work with an intrinsic goal for learning or who believe that the course material is interesting and important, tend to use cognitive and metacognitive strategies in EFL writing.  
● Three sub-factors of self-efficacy (i.e., linguistic self-efficacy, self-regulatory efficacy, and performance self-efficacy) were correlated with SRL strategies. This indicates that learners’ confidence in their linguistic, self-regulatory, and performance competence might generate motivational support for their cognitive engagement, metacognitive control, and motivational regulation when completing a writing task. 
● Motivational beliefs, as a whole, had predictive effects on each of the SRL strategies. Task value and intrinsic goal orientation were predictors of cognitive, metacognitive, and motivational regulation strategies. This means that EFL writers’ value of tasks and intrinsic motivation (e.g., learning for challenge, curiosity, or mastery) produce a strong impetus for their strategic learning. 
● Writing self-efficacy beliefs, as a whole, had significant predictive effects on SRL strategies. Students’ self-efficacy beliefs exerted more effort on metacognition, cognition, and motivational regulation but less on behavior strategies in social contexts.  
Things to consider
 
● The varying correlations and predictive relationships between these variables indicate that strategic behavior is a complex process under the influence of individual differences.  
● Students’ motivational beliefs and self-efficacy provide a motivational base for their effective engagement in academic learning.  
● Thus, it is necessary for practitioners and researchers to take learners’ motivational differences into consideration when they implement strategies-based writing instruction for promoting effective and proactive learning. 