
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In contemporary classrooms teachers can find it challenging to address the restrictions of high-stakes testing whilst creating opportunities for all students to voice their perspectives on language and cultural identity. This research looks at ways in which teachers can encourage the flexible use of students’ individual linguistic resources to enhance the literacy and language outcomes of their bilingual and multilingual students. Working with us, in our capacity as University partners, the participating teachers engaged in professional learning in ‘translanguaging poetry pedagogy’. This approach uses strategies and resources that encourage students to use any/all of their languages when composing identity text poems. The poems analysed for this article reveal figurative representations of the tensions between the students’ linguistic and cultural worlds, the weight of expectations experienced in relation to achieving competence in their languages, and the role of language in shaping a sense of identity. The researchers argue that in the absence of a policy on classroom plurilingualism, teachers are able to act as policy makers by developing a transformative translanguaging space that: addresses the potential restrictions of high-stakes testing contexts; embraces the use of students’ language repertoires; and acknowledges students’ cultural and linguistic heritage. 
What the researchers did
 The research was viewed through the lens of socio-spatial theory with translanguaging poetry pedagogy functioning as a ‘thirdspace’ practice, embracing creativity and criticality, and challenging dominant monolingual classroom routines. 
● This article reports one phase of the ‘Identity Texts Project’ and was conducted with nine teachers of adolescent students in Years 7 and 8 English classes in a school in metropolitan Sydney, Australia. 97% of the students have a Language background other than English (LBOTE) and 65% of the students are from the bottom quarter of the Index of Community Socio-educational Advantage (ICSEA). 
● Research commenced with a series of meetings during which teachers participated in professional dialogue, reflection and evaluation of teaching programs focused on the literacy and wellbeing needs of their students, and creative ways to prepare for high stakes testing such as the National Assessment Program – Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN). Several cycles of collaboration and sustained intervention followed including demonstration of suggested culturally relevant resources and ‘translanguaging poetry pedagogy’. 
● All suggested strategies focused on encouraging students to use their home languages in English lessons. 
What the researchers found
 
● Translanguaging poetry pedagogy supported students to articulate the relationship between their languages and their identity using a range of symbols and metaphors. The struggle to meet the expectations of others is often shaped by the tensions between the ‘real-and imagined’ school and the societal practices that prioritise English. 
● The role of language in shaping students’ sense of who they are and where they belong can be brought into the context of the school in poetry writing. This practice can support learning about language and develop the metalanguage with which to discuss and articulate personal experiences relating to multilingualism and identity. 
● Giving students agency to state the significance of their personal use of language in the classroom supports a reimagining of identity. Opportunities to interrogate social practices and identity include challenging the worldview of the exclusive use of the dominant language in an educational setting. 
● Teachers embraced ‘translanguaging poetry pedagogy’ as a ‘thirdspace’ practice capable of sustaining translanguaging practices in their classrooms. Given freedom to choose resources for their poetry units, teachers selected culturally relevant texts and a variety of multilingual and multimodal teaching resources. 
Things to consider
 By employing resources and pedagogies that acknowledge our students’ diverse backgrounds, and ways of thinking and communicating, we can enhance wellbeing and honour the communities and languages of all students. The poetic form allows economical expression of complex ideas and provides students with a purposeful and creative way to develop metalanguage and reflect on their language choices. Themes relating to ‘liberation’ and ‘excitement’ were identified in the data and teachers realized the importance of using their own cultural stories, multi-lingual texts and the intentional inclusion of students’ home languages and cultural backgrounds in supporting engagement. 