
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In the United States, multilingualism and multilingual education are not readily prioritized in schools. A relatively new initiative, the Seal of Biliteracy, seeks to change that by recognizing students’ abilities in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English and another language. But this is not a mandated policy that all school districts must implement, which results in discrepancies in whose multilingual abilities are recognized. No funding attaches to these efforts, so some school districts choose not to adopt the initiative at all. Other districts implement the policy to prioritize the biliteracy of a smaller subset of students, such as English-dominant students enrolled in world language programming, rather than the larger array of students who use languages other than English at home. This study sought to understand the actions of particular districts awarding the Seal of Biliteracy with greater frequency than other schools. Findings indicated that districts balanced efforts between world-language and heritage-language learners to recognize as many students as possible, as well as invested local funds to extend opportunities for students to develop and demonstrate biliteracy. 
What the researchers did
 
● We identified nine states that had offered the Seal of Biliteracy for at least five years and that required students to demonstrate world language proficiency on a language assessment. 
● We used publicly available data in five of the nine states to determine the top-awarding school districts and invited those districts to participate in our study. 
● Representing six districts in five states, district administrators responsible for the Seal of Biliteracy participated in interviews with researchers. We also collected multiple sources of document data from the participants, as well as publicly available information online.  
What the researchers found
 
● District leaders described using the Seal of Biliteracy to honor students’ home languages, which drove efforts to implement the policy in practice. These districts were situated in linguistically diverse communities where students spoke a multitude of languages, and administrators sought to provide opportunities for students to further develop these languages through bilingual and heritage-language education, as well as demonstrate these competencies on language assessments. 
● District leaders asserted the importance of collaboration, including having the support of superintendents and school boards, working with community members and organizations focusing on less commonly taught languages, and partnering with families and language teachers to promote the award and facilitate the logistics in schools. 
Things to consider
 
● Funding played a key role in these efforts. District leaders spoke to the importance of funding in supporting the personnel responsible for the efforts, as well as widening access to language instruction and assessment. In addition, one outlier district who awarded the Seal of Biliteracy with less frequency and in fewer languages had the smallest budget. 
● Due to limitations of the pandemic, this research relied on district leaders’ self-reporting. Future research might involve more stakeholders (e.g., students, teachers) and on-site data collection. 