
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Today's societies are increasingly challenged to create inclusive education systems in a context of growing linguistic diversity in schools. Creating effective teaching and learning spaces that allow students with varied linguistic profiles to have access to content has become indispensable. The research carried out has shown the close relationship between quality interactions and language acquisition, particularly in a minority language such as Basque. Therefore, identifying educational actions that foster high quality interactions and dialogue seems essential for learning a second language (L2) and for leaving no one behind. The results obtained in the study show how an interactive reading action called Dialogic Literary Gatherings (DLG) create a collaborative environment in second language (L2 Basque), in which the inclusion of all is fostered and literary skills are improved. In the DLGs, books are selected from the best universal literary works, before the gathering each participant reads and underlines what he/she finds interesting. During the DLG, they sit in a circle and share their paragraphs and all participants discuss it in an egalitarian dialogue. 
What the researchers did
 
● Researchers collaborated in a public secondary school in the Basque Country (Spain) to explore the impact of DLGs on involving students with different linguistic profiles in the educational activity carried out in Basque. Most students have Basque as L2, although for some of them Basque is their L1. 
● As part of the “Universal Literature” subject, a total of 12 students discussed universal classic literary works such as Madame Bovary (Flaubert) or A Room of One’s Own (Virginia Woolf). During the nine sessions of the DLGs the teacher facilitated discussions led by the students, who contributed ideas already identified when reading at home. Through egalitarian dialogue and equitable participation, they gave meaning to the book. 
● Researchers participated in all the sessions and observed and recorded students’ dialogues. Once the sessions ended, interviews were carried out with the teacher and the students to explore their perceptions and experience. 
● Strategies for promoting students’ interaction and inclusion during DLGs in Basque and the barriers that hinder the process were examined in depth in the conducted analysis. 
What the researchers found
 
● Classroom dialogue and collective language practice promotion: during the gatherings, students had the opportunity to participate in the classroom dialogue in contrast to the traditional teacher-centered lessons. When they took the floor, they did not only have the opportunity to share their reflections and argumentations, but also to help other classmates to express their ideas 
● Deepening on reading comprehension and literary interpretations: as the sessions progressed, the students achieved deeper reading comprehension and showed high capacity of literary interpretation. 
● Mutual scaffolding: students helped each other to express their ideas in Basque during the DLGs by offering clarifications, corrective feedback and prompts for using the L2 correctly. 
● Vocabulary acquisition: new vocabulary emerged when discussing their ideas inspired by the books. Students provided new words to each other and enriched their repertoire while learning together. 
Things to consider
 
● In order for classrooms to shift from teacher-centered interaction patterns to more dialogic and inclusive models, all the students must have the opportunity to openly talk and equally participate in L2 learning. 
● The Dialogic Literary Gatherings serve as a tool for teachers and students to transform the classroom communicative patterns increasing student participation in the L2 through mutual scaffolding and egalitarian dialogue. 
● This study provides important insights into how schools can offer students real opportunities to engage in dialogic interactions in the L2 as a unique opportunity for learners to value the language of the school beyond the curriculum. This can occur even with a minority language such as Basque. 