
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Universities in English speaking countries host the largest number of international students. However, many international students do not remain in these countries beyond their studies, nor do they use English only to communicate with native speakers. Despite this, some learners maintain dominant beliefs about language: idealizing native English speakers and viewing writing instruction as a means to reduce their linguistic differences. This practitioner-led comparative case-study explores the beliefs and language socialization experiences of two first-year Chinese undergraduates who were participants in a developmental writing course in a Northeastern US university. Even though during the course both students learned about critical perspectives on language, results show that they expressed a range of beliefs about language, which were shaped by their language socialization experiences outside of the course. 
What the researchers did
 
● The course instructor designed a persuasive writing unit which sought to enhance students’ critical awareness of language variation and provided rhetorical opportunities for students to question dominant beliefs about language. 
● Both focal learners wrote a persuasive essay considering whether English language learners should learn about different English varieties in schools. One learner, Ai, assumed a dominant stance in their essay, while the other learner, Yubi, assumed a critical stance. 
● The researchers collected writing samples from each student, using deductive coding methods to identify the beliefs that each learner expressed in their texts. This analysis generated themes that were followed further during interviews. 
● Both students participated in two semi-structured interviews after the course’s conclusion. 
● After preliminary analysis of students’ texts and initial interviewing, the researchers selected these learners as focal participants for a pre-structured case study and developed a specific set of follow up questions for the second interview as part of a sampling plan and case outline. 
What the researchers found
 
● The two students displayed dominant and critical beliefs about English language variation, which closely related to their socialization in their first language. Each learners’ beliefs were influenced by numerous factors external to the course, including their experiences with language standardization, heritage language loss, family immigration, and intercultural communication in their first language. 
● Ai maintained dominant beliefs about language. She grew up in Beijing, China, where she observed that the use of non-standardized Mandarin varieties was prohibited in her schools. 
● Yubi, aligned herself with critical perspectives on language. Prior to her university studies, Yubi had experienced a need for intercultural communication, moving during her teenage years from China’s northern to southern provinces where a Hainanese variety was widely used. 
Things to consider
 
● Instructors benefit from learning about their students’ language socialization experiences and expectations in order to responsively address and face the tensions that emerge in a critical language curriculum. 
● There can be no guaranteed learning outcomes from critical language study, as reaching the desired outcomes requires learners to interrogate social processes of domination that occur through language use. These desired outcomes may conflict with traditional language development outcomes that many learners hold without question. 
● Recognizing that students need to reflect on wherever their past experiences have led them, one cannot determine objectively how encounters with critical perspectives will further develop. 
● Similarly, as instructors cannot change students’ prior socialization, they can help students to a) create and recognize artifacts associated with their language socialization, and b) critically reflect on the beliefs they express through different forms of self-examination. 