
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In international contexts, pilots and air traffic controllers communicate in aviation English on the radio. This communication is made through a highly specialized language, Aeronautical Phraseology, mandated by ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization), employing unique terms, pronunciation, grammar, and organization that are different from everyday English used by speakers of various first languages. However, in non-routine situations such as an engine failure or a bird strike, pilots and controllers also use plain English that is similar to spontaneous everyday English for more complex interactions. Because pilot-controller communication is crucial to ensure air safety, this study investigated how aviation specialists communicate on the radio especially when they experience communication difficulty. Three conversational samples were selected from an Aviation English corpus to examine the use of communication strategies in depth. The study found some similarities and differences between the radio communications and general interactions in English in international contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● Using a corpus of radio communications, the researchers first identified three sample conversations in which speakers of different first languages interacted and encountered communication difficulty (e.g., a pilot of a French airline and a controller in Budapest airspace; a pilot of an Emirati air company and a controller at a U.S. airport). 
● The researchers closely examined the process in which aviation specialists negotiate meaning through a variety of communication strategies, including repetition, simplification, paraphrasing, signaling importance, clarifying intention, and asking for clarification. They also analyzed how these strategies assisted or hampered the radio communications in each aviation context. 
What the researchers found
 
● The study found that clarity in communication (being very explicit) was a conspicuous feature in the radio communications. Explicitness is a common feature of English spoken internationally for general purposes as well; however, the degree of explicitness was higher in the aviation context. The researchers explained that a lack of precision in radio communication was directly related to potentially fatal accidents and that the risks of communication errors were extremely high. 
● Common explicitness strategies used in the radio communications included partial or total repetition, paraphrasing, clarification requests, and overt questions. These strategies were used for both resolving and preempting communicative difficulty, as in English used in international academic or business contexts. 
● Accommodation strategies, such as prefacing requests, giving reasons, and slowing down, were also observed in the data, which appeared to have facilitated comprehension and cooperative operations. 
● Some communication strategies, such as signals for understanding, discourse markers, and collaborative overlaps, which were often found in English spoken internationally for academic or business purposes, were not compatible with the specialized aviation discourse and thus were absent from the data in this study. 
Things to consider
 
● English serves as a tool for international aviation communication. Simultaneously, English appears to enable and promote the process of globalization, contributing to heightened engagement, contact, interdependence, (super)diversity, and hybridity within the aviation community. 
● No one is native to aviation English; every aviation specialist must acquire it within the aviation community regardless of the status as a native or nonnative speaker of English. 
● Given the unique characteristics of English on the radio that are distinct from English used for other purposes, the researchers point to the importance of contextualized training activities for aviation specialists as well as a collective repository of such materials. For example, teacher-guided analysis of authentic ELF conversations is recommended, in which students can learn how to clarify or enhance explicitness of their own and others’ language. Aviation trainees should also develop accommodation skills to gauge and adjust to others’ communicative repertoires. 