
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Funds of identity refers to the resources that people use to define who they are. These can be (1) social (e.g., friends), (2) institutional (e.g., schools), (3) geographical (e.g., cities), (4) cultural artifacts (e.g., books), and (5) practical (e.g., playing music). In the case of teacher education, it is important to understand how teachers construct their identity and how their image of themselves influences their teaching so that teacher education programmes can reduce the gap between teachers’ trajectories, external theories, and school practice. While there are studies on teacher identity, research on the funds of identity of those who study to become teachers is scant. In this study, we examined how students to become teachers of English constructed their identity during their teacher education programme. The study shows that students can maintain their funds of identity unchanged, recognize a shift from past to present experiences, and experience the powerful influence of the teacher education programme and its lecturers. 
What the researchers did
 
● The research took place with a group of students at a four-year undergraduate English language teacher education programme in Argentina. 
● Data were collected over four years. 
● At the end of each academic year, the researchers asked the students to draw a circle and place inside the most important people, places, experiences, or other elements that had exercised a positive impact on their identity as future teachers.  
● The students were also interviewed to explain their circles and reflect on the whole experience as students/teachers to be. 
What the researchers found
 
● Some students always prioritized academic knowledge. 
● Other students moved from valuing their experiences as primary or secondary school students to valuing the teacher education programme and lecturers. 
● A third group displayed a shift from external funds (e.g., friends) to internal funds (e.g., classmates). 
● The students also showed new funds of identity such as valuative (students stressing values such as social justice or equality) and anticipatory (imagined future colleagues, learners, and professional development opportunities). 
Things to consider
 The study’s findings contribute to three main takeaways: 
● Lecturers can play a defining role in who future teachers would (not) wish to be like. 
● Teacher education programmes and lecturers need to show congruent practices by walking their talk.  
● Teacher education programmes need to offer students systematic opportunities to explore and reflect on their funds of identity and envision the kind of teacher they would (not) like to be. 
● In language teacher education programmes, it is important to dismantle the misconception that so-called native speakers of English are better language teachers that teachers whose first language is not English. 