
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Input enhancement is a pedagogical practice aiming to briefly and unobtrusively direct second-language (L2) learners’ attention to form in meaning-oriented teaching/learning activities. Although input enhancement seems to be capable of directing L2 learners’ attention to L2 forms, this enhanced attention does not consistently lead to L2 learning gains in all cases. A possible reason for the inconclusive findings might be that researchers have not systematically compared the effects of the different types of attention that the various input enhancement techniques lead to. This study examined the effects of input enhancement techniques designed to tap into two types of attention: 1) the external attentional system, and 2) the internal attentional system. In the external techniques, learners’ attention is directed to target L2 forms through typographical manipulation of the external features of the forms (e.g., color-coding, CAPITALIZING, underlining). In the internal techniques, a learner’s attentional system is triggered through the manipulation of the internal attributes of target L2 forms (e.g., making target words more salient by repeating them throughout the text). This study also investigated whether the pedagogical potential of these two types of input enhancement practices (internal vs. external attentional manipulations) would be affected by cognitive factors such as individual differences in working memory capacity. Findings of this study shed light on whether differentiated input enhancement intervention is needed for L2 learners with different cognitive profiles, namely learners with high- and low-working memory capacities. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 84 L2 learners of English with similar English proficiency (B2 CEFR-level). 
● Roughly two months before the study, all participants took part in a working memory test and two vocabulary tests. 
● In the reading part of the study, participants read six passages of texts in three hours, with a 5-minute break every 20 minutes or so. 36 target words—words that these 84 participants could recognize but were not able to produce correctly in writing before the study—were embedded in the passages. Various input enhancement techniques were used to direct the participants’ attention to these 36 target words while they were reading the passages. 
● One week later, the participants completed a productive vocabulary test. Analyses were performed to see which input enhancement technique (internal vs. external attentional manipulations) was more effective in promoting the participants’ vocabulary gains; and whether their vocabulary gains were affected by their differences in working memory capacity. 
What the researchers found
 
● Combined input enhancement engaged by internal attentional manipulations (e.g., enhancing the frequency of exposure to the target vocabulary and putting the vocabulary in contexts of varying contextual richness) appeared to be a strong attention getter. But its effect did not lead to greater gains than the external manipulations (e.g., bolding and italicizing) in all cases. This suggests that internal attentional manipulations through frequency enhancement are not always more effective than external ones; over-enhancing the frequency of and/or exposure to the target form may only lead learners to become familiar with the forms, without necessarily engaging the learners in effortful cognitive activities in order to learn the forms. 
● Simple input enhancement (i.e., varying the contextual supports for the target words) could be as effective as compound input enhancement. This suggests that the-more-the-merrier view does not always hold true for input enhancement. 
● We found that the effects of internal and external manipulations were modulated by differences in working memory capacity; input enhancement benefitted high-working memory learners more due to their larger attentional capacities. For low-working memory learners, the use of input enhancement is probably not sufficient; additional explicit instruction or learning guidance from the instructor are needed. 
Things to consider
 
● The finding highlights the importance of considering and determining L2 learners’ major cognitive profiles (such as modality preference and working memory capacity) when employing input enhancement techniques. 
● Importantly, it speaks to the need to use individualized/differentiated reading materials for optimal learning outcomes. 