
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Speaking is a complex language skill. It requires being competent in various areas of language such as grammar, vocabulary, accuracy and fluency. Therefore, many foreign language learners have problems with speaking. To overcome these problems, it is important to understand the factors that may influence the development of speaking competence. It is known that motivation and self-regulation (i.e. managing your learning) have positive impacts on language learning. But, is there a relationship between speaking competence and self-regulated speaking motivation (i.e. managing your motivation to improve speaking)? Does self-regulated motivation predict foreign language speaking competence? This study investigated the relationship between foreign language speaking competence and self-regulated speaking motivation. It measured self-regulated speaking motivations of learners of English as a foreign language who varied in speaking competence. The study found that the two concepts are positively related and self-regulated speaking motivation predicts speaking competence. This indicates that positive self-regulated motivation leads to the improvement of foreign language speaking competence. What the researcher did 
● Data were collected from 84 Turkish learners of English as a foreign language whose average age was 19. They were future teachers of English who studied at a university in the Western part of Turkey.  
● Three experts were invited to rate the speaking competence of each participant by listening to their audio-recordings in a speaking test. 
● A scale (SRMIS-EFL scale) was administered to measure participants’ self-regulated speaking motivation. The scale comprised four factors: task value activation (e.g. reminding themselves that they need to speak English well), regulation of learning environment (e.g. creating opportunities to speak English outside the class), regulation of affect (e.g. overcoming anxiety when speaking in English) and regulation of classroom environment (e.g. using every opportunity to speak English during lessons). 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants reported that they used task value activation (e.g. reminding themselves that they need to speak English well), followed by regulation of learning environment (e.g. creating opportunities to speak English outside the class), and regulation of classroom environment (e.g. using every opportunity to speak English during lessons). They reported using regulation of affect (e.g. overcoming anxiety when speaking in English) the least. 
● This study showed that a learner’s level of self-regulated speaking motivation predicted 34% of the issues related to foreign language speaking competence. 
● Among the four variables tested, only regulation of affect predicted foreign language speaking competence. 
● There was a strong relationship between regulation of affect and foreign language speaking competence and a moderate relationship between regulation of classroom environment and foreign language speaking competence.  
● There was no relationship between foreign language competence, task value activation and regulation of learning environment. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that self-regulated speaking motivation plays a role in the development of foreign language speaking competence. That is, more competent speakers have higher levels of self-regulated speaking motivation. 
● More competent speakers managed their affective states and tried to speak English more during lessons. 
● This study showed the importance of coping with negative affective states (e.g. anxiety, nervousness, fear of making mistakes) when developing foreign language speaking competence. 
● This study is limited to self-reported data collected from participants at a particular university. Therefore, it is difficult to generalize its findings. 
● More studies are needed to understand the factors influencing speaking competence in different foreign languages and examine whether self-regulated motivation increases speaking competence in different contexts.  
● Further studies should be conducted to further our knowledge of the role of regulation in developing speaking competence in different foreign languages. 