
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In this review, I argue that there is no straightforward answer to the question. Learning more languages can be easier for multilinguals, but it is not a must – it is more likely for highly proficient, biliterate multilinguals that they can profit from their multilingualism in terms of easier learning of subsequent languages. It is important to challenge too simplistic views on learning and using multiple languages. 
What the researchers did
 
● This review carefully looks at results from studies in different disciplines. 
● The main question had to be divided into several, more detailed questions. 
● Answers to the different questions relate to the way languages are learned, memorized, and used by a speaker as well as to brain-related information. 
What the researchers found
 
● Exposure to more than two languages has a stimulating effect: learners are more interested in and want more new information, and if they perceive appropriate input, they can learn even two L2s in parallel. 
● Substantial knowledge of more than two languages can have a facilitating effect, i.e. can make it easier to learn a new language (already available language learning skills such as strategies and one’s knowledge in and about languages can be used): e.g. if number (English) – Nummer (German) – numéro (French) are known, it will be easy to understand numero (Italian), however for “mispar” (which means number in Hebrew) it would not have helped though. Thus, it is easier to learn closely related languages with similar grammars and large lexical overlap, and highly proficient multilinguals seem to profit most from it. 
● Multilinguals can learn faster, in particular those who easily remember what they hear. 
● Being able to read and write in several languages, in particular in heritage/family languages, is crucial for learning success of additional languages, in particular for reading. 
● Highly proficient multilinguals might be better when having to concentrate, but all multilinguals struggle with unintentional language use, e.g., using one language rather than the one the speaker intended to use. 
● Multilinguals can develop a sophisticated system of how to manage multiple languages. 
Things to consider
 
● Learning a new language means that new input launches a set of immediate and longer-term changes in the brain to meet the demands put onto the system. 
● How much and for which purposes we use certain languages influences how the brain deals with them. 
● How we learn new languages and the way the individual brain works influences how easily we can learn. 
● Multilingualism offers an opportunity for easier learning of additional languages. 
● Generally, the individual learner could make the most out of the personally available resources. 
● However, some people learn easily and enjoy learning, for others it is more difficult and strenuous. 
● Therefore, it cannot be automatically assumed that just because someone learned several languages, this learner will learn easily. 