
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Teachers of Emergent Bilinguals (EBs) support their students the best way they know how. Typically, that means providing them with vocabulary support throughout the content lesson. But with research that suggests EBs need more than vocabulary to grow their academic and linguistic potential, this study explores what beliefs language teachers hold and how those views filter into their instructional choices for their EBs. This study uses discourse analysis to trace two upper-elementary (age 9-12) teacher’s beliefs about language in order to examine whether and how their stated beliefs align and are reflected in their teaching practice. Findings will help teacher educators and administrators address teacher beliefs about language as those beliefs pertain to instructional modifications for EB learners. What the researcher did 
● 
● I observed two upper-grade teachers (Grace and Soledad) during their social studies period 13 times during the fall semester and twice again in the spring semester. After four lessons, I interviewed the teachers about language-related teaching moments to better understand why they made the decisions they did around language supports. I also interviewed the teachers about their histories as language learners, as language teachers, and then about their views of a language policy document. The interviews were transcribed, and I coded them for moments when we talked about language, about EBs, and about their views on such matters. 
● My methodology is called Figured Worlds. In a teacher’s Figured World, there are actors (e.g., principal, ESL teacher), certain artefacts (language objectives, state standards) and valued outcomes (how do I know when an EB is learning the material?). I examined each teacher’s Figured World to deduce what their values and beliefs are about language teaching in the content classroom. What the researcher found Both Grace and Soledad see language through a vocabulary lens. This was true in their interviews, and it was observed in their work with EBs. The following chart illustrates the ways in which their beliefs map onto their teaching choices. Teachers Pedagogy Grace 
● Vocabulary previews 
● Vocabulary noticing during read alouds 
● Clarify word meanings during reading conferences Soledad 
● Celebrates academic vocabulary use in student output 
● Plans for vocabulary support in social studies 
● Teachable moments about plural nouns and vocabulary terms  Beliefs about language Language includes many features but language learning primarily occurs when vocabulary is developed in the new language. Vocabulary is where concept ideas are expressed. Academic language presents challenges, so texts need to be simplified. She says, “I want to give [my EBs] both explicit vocabulary instruction, but I also want to teach them how to learn new words on their own.” When Grace acquired Spanish, she recalled an elective (business Spanish) for all the “practical vocabulary” she learned. She says, “Obviously vocabulary’s important, but if we only focused on vocab we would never get to the content.” When Soledad imagines her principal auditing her instruction to stick to the lesson plan content.  Typical Stories 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers face time-constraints to tackle all the content standards, in addition to addressing language work for their EBs. Looking at curriculum and pacing through a language lens may alleviate some of this pressure in the service of more robust language-and-content planning. 
● Teacher educators and administrators may consider giving their teachers opportunities to self-reflect on their histories as language learners and (when relevant) as bilingual teachers. Such moments may allow for insights that reduce barriers to adapt more sentence- and discourse-level language work in the content classroom. 