
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In recent years, alignment has emerged as a promising area in both psycholinguistic and second language acquisition studies. Alignment is a process whereby speakers’ language converges, with speakers using each other’s expressions, structures and sounds etc. as a conversation unfolds. Psycholinguists see alignment as an important mechanism underlying smooth communication in first language (L1) language use. Second language (L2) researchers consider alignment beyond face-to-face human interaction, viewing it as a dynamic adaptation and coordination on the part of the mind and body of human beings in tandem with the ever-changing environment, and a necessary and crucial requirement for L2 development. Nevertheless, very little is known about factors that impact on the alignment process and the usefulness of alignment in learning specific linguistic items. The current paper is intended to bridge the gap, reporting on two empirical studies targeting vocabulary acquisition by Chinese English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners. Study 1 compared three tasks with increasing levels of learner interaction in relation to input material. Study 2 compared three tasks when learners interact with various interaction loads: input, high-/low-proficiency peers, multimodal support. Results indicated that (1) task-induced interactional intensity had robust effects on alignment magnitude as well as receptive and productive lexical knowledge. (2) interacting with high-proficiency partners had positive impact on alignment magnitude and lexical knowledge, but video exerted only a limited effect. The findings afforded evidence for the “interaction-alignment-learning” research route and accounted for vocabulary acquisition from a new perspective. 
What the researchers did
 
● 248 L2 learners of English participated in study 1 and 126 in study 2. o In study 1, we designed three tasks with increasing levels of learner engagement with input material: paraphrase (rewording or rephrasing sentences appearing in a text with the original meaning retained), summary (summarizing the gist and main points of a text in a concise way) and continuation (reading an incomplete story and continue writing it to make the story coherent and logical). o In study 2, we used three tasks when learners interact with various interaction loads: input (an incomplete story with its ending removed), peers (interactants who share their understanding of the story and evaluate their partner’s writing in terms of language, organization and content) and multimodal support (a video that vividly demonstrated the story for participants to watch during the discussion and revision session). 
● Students' writings and vocabulary scores (after the test) were collected, and written output was coded for linguistic alignment. Students’ interactions with peers were transcribed and analyzed, as well as coded for interactional intensity in terms of CRE (content-related episode), ORE (organization-related episode) and LRE (language-related episode). 
● Statistical analyses were used to evaluate the effect of interactional intensity in relation to input, peers, video on alignment magnitude and vocabulary learning results. 
What the researchers found
 
● Study 1 found that tasks with higher interactional intensity with input material resulted in greater alignment. Tasks with higher interactional intensity gave rise to better vocabulary learning and retention. 
● Study 2 found that interacting with high-proficiency partners had positive impact on alignment magnitude and vocabulary knowledge, but video only had a limited effect. 
Things to consider
 
● L2 vocabulary learning hinges on alignment magnitude, which is predicated on the interactional intensity in relation to various interaction loads. 
● The notion of interactional intensity could be applied to the learning of other linguistic structures by learners of different language learning backgrounds in various instructional settings, and can serve as the criterion against which we design, modify and evaluate our pedagogical practices. 