
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study looked at the effect of a mobile game app, a social media app, and traditional classroom instruction on native Persian speakers’ learning of English phrasal verbs. Phrasal verbs are difficult to learn for learners whose first language does not contain phrasal verbs, such as Persian. Because of this, identifying successful learning strategies for those learners is important. The authors report that at the time of writing, there had been no studies examining the effect of mobile gaming or social media apps on the learning of English phrasal verbs. They found that the group who used mobile gaming to learn phrasal verbs had the largest increase in scores after instruction. The social media group had the smallest increase in scores. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 150 Persian-speaking learners of English with intermediate proficiency at a language institute in Iran (about ⅔ male and ⅓ female, average age 16). Participants were split into three groups of 50 each for mobile gaming, social media, and traditional classroom. All three groups: o Had the same instructor. o Took a 40-item phrasal verb test designed by the researchers, before and after instruction. No statistically meaningful difference was found between groups in phrasal verb knowledge before instruction. o Received instruction on English phrasal verbs for 30-minute sessions twice a week for seven weeks, albeit via three different methods. In total 101 phrasal verbs were taught. At least two groups also received 60 minutes of instruction on other topics twice a week. 
● The mobile gaming group used the game Phrasal Nerds: Phrasal Verbs developed by Auray Studios. o The app contains two modes: a story mode inspired by flashcards and a quiz mode to reinforce learning. o Learners were asked to not play the game outside of class. 
● The social media group used Telegram which is a popular messaging app in Iran. o They met outside of class, due to parental control over some learners’ internet use and a lack of available wi-fi in the classroom. o The social media group was provided phrasal verbs, along with definitions and examples, through Telegram. The number of views was used to determine whether participants received instruction. In the traditional group an instructor used a whiteboard to give definitions, examples, and questions. 
What the researchers found
 
● All three groups improved their scores on the test after instruction, suggesting that all three methods are viable for learning English phrasal verbs. 
● The mobile game group had the greatest improvement, while the social media group had the least improvement. 
Things to consider
 Mobile game-based learning lead to most improved learning of English phrasal verbs for foreign language learners. This could be related to advantages that the gaming group had, such as visual aids and quizzes that allowed for multiple attempts in a reduced stress environment. Therefore, future studies could seek to examine what specific factors are at play in mobile gaming and if traditional instruction can be adapted to include those features with similar success. The social media group had the lowest improvement, although there were many complicating factors that could have caused the social media group to underperform. First, the other groups learned in a classroom environment while the social media group was instructed outside of class due to technological and parental restrictions. This removes control over factors such as poor internet connection, or distractions from other group chats, etc. Future avenues for study include different participant samples, different educational contexts (especially with more control over factors), and the use of various social media platforms or mobile games. Future studies may also look at social media usage inside a classroom to achieve greater control over factors that could affect learning. 