
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Time is a significant factor in any attempt to change practice and problems related to time are often mentioned in discussions of educational change. Time can be considered in terms of the specific duration of time that is available to people, but it is also important to consider how time is understood in order to understand how time impacts on possibilities for educational change. This study uses Bakhtin’s idea of the chronotope to investigate how a group of teachers of English in universities in Western China understood time and how this affected the possibilities for change in their teaching. The chronotope was developed by Bakhtin as a framework for the cultural analysis of relationships between space and time. Time-space relationships are not simply experienced, but are structured, organized, and represented to give them meanings and social significance and considering time as it relates to space provides a way of understanding teachers’ engagement in change. This study investigates how chronotopes are central to understanding the teaching practice of these teachers of English and examines how they experience the interrelationships between times and spaces when changing their teaching practice and the impact this has on their work. 
What the researchers did
 
● A group of Chinese teachers of English participated in a month-long professional learning workshop on English. 
● A group of nine teachers was identified as a follow-up study of the workshop to investigate how teachers drew on the workshop in developing their teaching practice. 
● The researchers observed classes taught by these teachers and interviewed them about their work. 
● The observation and interviews were examined to provide information on how the teachers implemented aspects of the workshop in their teaching and the enablers and constraints they experienced in changing their practice. 
What the researchers found
 Chronotopes have an influence on a number of aspects of teachers’ work and these influences can constrain how they implement change in their teaching. These aspects of work include: 
● The nature of academic work: academic work involves more than teaching and the different components of work can be in conflict in understanding time within the space of the university. Changing practice requires time but the teachers viewed themselves as being constrained by the chronotopes that shaped their work and expressed difficulties in managing the competing chronotopes of its various components. 
● The ways institutions value academic work: The different components of academic work are not equally valued in institutional chronotopes. Deciding to focus more time on teaching is a decision to allocate time to an activity that is less valued, with consequences for academic progression. 
● The ways institutions value changes to practice: Some institutions valued change more than others. Where institutions that valued change, investing time in change had benefits for participants, but where this was not the case, time spent on changing practice was seen as wasted. 
Things to consider
 While the study examined only a small number of teachers, considering how time was understood suggests some things to consider in implementing educational change: 
● Chronotopes shape how teachers understand and evaluate their work, their roles, and their agency. 
● How teachers use their time can be evaluated in different ways in different contexts, with different consequences for how and how much teachers change their practice. 
● How time is understood and valued is important in understanding how time is available for and used in changing teaching practice. 