
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Often, schools assume that newly immigrated students will “catch up” academically with their peers within a few years. This belief is common in countries such as Germany, but there is almost no research on actual learning trajectories of these students. This two-year study, the first in Germany on reading progress of newly immigrated students, shows that secondary students are not even beginning to approach levels attained by their mainstream peers within their first three years of education (one-year preparatory class and two years in mainstream) – or beyond. It raises important questions as to whether the school system is meeting the needs of immigrant learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 136 students who had immigrated to Germany after the age of 6, and 517 of their non-immigrant classmates. At the start of the study, all participants had just entered Grade 7 or Grade 8 (13 – 14 years old) and were attending one of 15 participating schools in the states of Bremen and Hamburg. Immigrant learners had attended language preparatory classes for up to one year prior to entering mainstream education. Some had experienced schooling in their country of origin, while others had interrupted formal education. 
● All 653 students completed grade-appropriate tests of reading fluency, reading comprehension of Biology texts, and reading comprehension of narrative (story) texts. They were tested on each type of test twice in the first year of the study and once at the end of the second year of the study. 
● Immigrant students also completed a German reading test at the beginning of the study developed especially for second-language learners. 
● All students completed questionnaires about their language and school experience. 
What the researchers found
 
● Despite having already spent at least a year in language classes, most immigrant learners had not reached the recommended minimal reading proficiency level necessary to comprehend basic texts. 
● Immigrant learners scored far below non-immigrants regarding reading fluency and reading comprehension. The gap between immigrant and non-immigrant learners did not shorten measurably within the two-year timeframe of the study. 
● Using the non-immigrants as a baseline, although immigrant students tended to improve over time, the changes were minimal, even for students who had spent up to seven years in the school system. 
● Younger students and students who spend more time in preparatory classes might have an advantage, whereas students originating from a crisis region may be at a disadvantage. 
Things to consider
 
● Immigrant students in this study appear to continue to lag far behind their non-immigrant peers on measures of reading fluency and reading comprehension. Although they are improving, their rate of improvement is not such as to close the gap to their non-immigrant peers. 
● This result also applies to learners who have already been in mainstream for a number of years. It is worrisome because, in Germany, learners may exit the school system as early as after Grade 9 and thus never have the opportunity to develop up to grade level. 
● Much more research is needed on this population. Very little is known about this highly diverse group of learners, their learning trajectories and the various aspects that affect their learning progression, and the dearth of information contributes to the general inability to develop proper curricula, materials and integration plans. 