
What this research was about and why it is important 
 One of the key issues that needs to be confronted in contemporary TESOL is racism, as many English teachers of color continue to face discrimination on the basis of what they look and sound like across the world. In this research, I argue that we need to also spend time analyzing how people involved in TESOL resist racism on a day-to-day basis. I examined how this happened in a Facebook group for foreign teachers of English in Thailand, a country where teachers of color are often paid less despite having higher qualifications than many white teachers on the market. I found that while racism was rampant in the group discussions, resistance to it was also strong, suggesting that more credit needs to be given to those at the grass roots who challenge racist beliefs in and around TESOL. What the researcher did 
● The aim of the study was to see how racism was resisted in online discussions about job advertisements. 
● Data was collected from a public Facebook group for English teachers in Thailand (with over 40,000 members) in which TESOL jobs are routinely advertised. 
● Before collecting data, I observed group members’ activities over a period of nine months. 
● All posts and comments related to racism made during a three-week period were analyzed in detail. What the researcher found 
● Racism was widespread in the group, but resistance to it was also extremely common. 
● Many of the job ads posted in the group were discriminatory but their authors seemed to be aware that this was unacceptable, so they tried to avoid mentioning race openly, e.g. by asking for “Native speaker or European teachers” instead of saying “white teachers wanted”. 
● An important way in which members tried to resist racism was by calling out this kind of coded language in the comments, in this way making it clear that it was unacceptable. 
● Such resistance was often challenged in the comments below such advertisements, often by group members who simply refused to acknowledge that racism was a problem, even when others had pointed it out. 
● In several instances, those resisting racism were accused of playing the victim and trying to blame others for their own failure, though at the same time there were also many examples of white group members portraying themselves as victims (e.g. of anti-discrimination policies). 
● Some group members resisted racism by sharing their experience with trying to change things at their own workplace in Thailand. 
● Ultimately, the resistance seemed to be successful, as a new policy was created by the group administrators, banning any kind of racial discrimination in the job advertisements, including the kind of coded language found as part of this study. 
Things to consider
 
● The key point raised by this research is that ideas like racism don’t simply exist in themselves – people uphold them through their actions on a day-to-day basis. 
● Resistance to racism in TESOL may be a frustrating and draining experience, particularly for teachers of color, but it is a worthy cause and must be continued. 
● Long-term, large-scale change can be achieved if resistance is organized and targets smaller spaces (like a Facebook group). 
● Research in TESOL needs to observe how debates around such change happen if it is to fully acknowledge the power that individuals across the world have. 