
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The number of dual language bilingual education (DLBE) programs is increasing throughout the United States, including Indiana. Indiana, however, as a new immigrant destination state, does not have a long tradition of providing bilingual education and bilingual education teacher preparation is limited. To better serve and benefit language-minoritized English language learners (ELLs) in DLBE programs, for whom bilingual education is originally intended, a high-quality teacher professional development (PD) for DLBE teachers is needed. Purdue University provided Indiana elementary teachers with an 18-month PD program consisting of instructional coaching and coursework and as part of a federally funded project. In this mixed methods study, we examined the impact of the PD on the DLBE teachers’ sheltered instructional practices for ELLs through systematic classroom observations of their English language arts (ELA) block. 
What the researchers did
 
● From Fall 2018 to Spring 2020, we provided the treatment group (7 DLBE teachers) with 7 online ELL licensure and DLBE certificate courses along with 6 on-site instructional coaching sessions. The comparison group (8 non-DLBE teachers) did not receive any treatment. 
● We observed and video recorded 3 to 4 ELA lessons of each participant. Then we scored each lesson using the Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol (SIOP). 
● We compared the quality of the sheltered instruction of the two groups using the SIOP total scores across the four observations. We also compared the SIOP component scores of the treatment group over time. 
● We selected exemplary teachers who showed greatest improvements in each of the eight SIOP components. We closely analyzed their lesson videos and wrote vignettes to describe their improvements in instructional practices. 
What the researchers found
 
● The treatment group (DLBE teachers) showed greater improvements in the SIOP total scores than the comparison group (non-DLBE teachers). At the third observation (end of the school year), there was a decline in the SIOP total scores in both groups. 
● The DLBE teachers’ SIOP component scores increased in all areas but Comprehensible Input and Review & Assessment. However, the DLBE teachers showed high Comprehensible Input scores from the beginning. 
● The exemplary teachers showed improved sheltered instructional practices in the later observations, including clear content and language objectives, better linkage to students’ personal experiences, more emphasis on key vocabulary, more explicit learning strategies instruction, more frequent interaction and discussion opportunities, better pacing, and more comprehensive review of key vocabulary. 
Things to consider
 
● The online ELL and DLBE coursework and on-site instructional coaching had a positive impact on improving the overall quality of the participant DLBE teachers’ sheltered ELA instruction. 
● The participant DLBE teachers’ Review & Assessment practices were least impacted by the PD program. This may be because the Review & Assessment was not a focused area of coaching. 
● Explicit support for DLBE teachers is needed to make connections between theory and practice. Coursework plus coaching may be a more effective PD model than a coursework-only model for teachers to make such connections. 
● While the SIOP has been criticized because of its narrow focus on only select observable aspects of sheltered instruction, it was useful for providing an overall indication of the quality of teachers’ instruction for ELLs. 
● Future research will compare the SIOP scores with project-developed rubric scores, include a bigger sample size, and examine other essential elements of DLBE programs. 