
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Given the prominent trend of using technological tools in language teaching, this research investigates how videoconferencing with two different conversation partner types can impact learners’ confidence development over time. In terms of theory, this research is guided by the functional model of second language confidence proposed by Sampasivam and Clément (2014), which hypothesizes on the specific dimensions of the language experience that may affect learners’ confidence development, namely, its richness and self-involvement. Adding to this framework, and, novel to this study, is the effect of cultural depth offered by the language experience on learners’ confidence development. In terms of procedure, 32 second language learners of Spanish carried out eight 30-minute videoconferences over twelve weeks, four with a peer and four with a paid conversation partner on the online platform Talk Abroad. The results revealed that the paid conversation partners were perceived as affording significantly more richness and cultural depth than the peer learners. In spite of this, longitudinal gains in learner confidence were indistinguishable by conversation partner type, suggesting that videoconferencing over time is beneficial, no matter with whom it is realized. 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited 32 participants who were students enrolled in a fifth-semester Spanish conversation course at a large public midwestern university in the United States. 
● They asked the participants to complete eight 30-minute videoconferences in Spanish on topics related to the course curriculum. Four videoconferences were conducted with a peer student and four were conducted with a paid conversation partner on the online platform Talk Abroad. 
●  They collected data for this study which comprised the learners’ responses to an initial questionnaire and eight post-conversation questionnaires. 
What the researchers found
 
● In terms of confidence development over time, increases in learners’ self-confidence were found after conversing with both partner types, indicating that videoconferencing in the language is beneficial regardless of partner type. 
● As for the perceptions of conversation partners, the paid partners were seen as offering more richness and cultural depth than the peer students. 
● Concerning self-involvement, or the extent to which the partner promoted interactivity, both partner types were deemed engaging. 
Things to consider
 
● In terms of theory, the results of this study support the hypotheses of Sampasivam and Clément (2014), specifically, that richness and self-involvement of the language experience seem to impact learner confidence development. 
● Regarding pedagogy, it is important to note that the students in this study were at the intermediate range of Spanish proficiency, and that the methodology for the videoconferences was open-dialogue, meaning that the students were given the autonomy to lead the conversation in the direction of their choosing within the domain of the theme, as bolstered by six optional discussion questions which were provided as a point of reference. 
● If an educator’s primary goal is to foster confidence development in language students, the incorporation of multiple guided videoconferences with either partner type seems to be a means to that end. 