
What this research was about and why it is important 
 With the emerging role of learners’ individual differences (IDs) in applied linguistics research and the demand to create inclusive classrooms, investigating what teachers think of taking IDs into account and how their reported practices are directed at these IDs is gaining prominence. To study this, 28 English language teachers were interviewed in Hungary. The two aims of this study were 1) to investigate what language teachers think about focusing on learners’ IDs and 2) to examine how they focus on these IDs during lessons (if at all) based on their reported practices. Firstly, what teachers thought of applying practices tailored to learners’ IDs seems to be shaped by how they think about learners’ skills; whether they think that these skills can be developed. Secondly, the findings indicated that the selected teachers are aware of the importance of focusing on IDs but consider this a task full of challenges due to two main reasons; most of them showed that they think that they cannot implement practices that focus on IDs efficiently, and they also claimed that there is no time for implementing these practices. Thirdly, the teachers reported that they mainly focus on proficiency-related differences, some of them also mentioned focusing on learners’ interests and grouping learners flexibly to address IDs. However, only a few of them mentioned focusing on learners’ characteristics and learning preferences, which would otherwise be imperative in maximising the learning opportunities in the language learning classroom. Finally, one teacher proposed a possibly efficient system (gamification) that, if applied, is a technological framework that can take these IDs into account. What the researcher did 
● Participants were 28 English language teachers from Hungarian secondary schools aged between 27 and 64. 
● Three males and 25 females participated in the study, and this ratio is typical of the language teaching profession in Hungary. 
● The language teachers have taught 21 years of English on average with a minimum of five years and a maximum of 35. 
● The language teachers were interviewed – with the help of a research group the author is part of – between 2019 and 2021, some face-to-face, others online. 
● The interviews were analysed with the foci being what teachers think of implementing practices that cater for IDs and how they attempt to take these IDs into account in their foreign language classes. 
Things to consider
 
● Language teachers mostly claimed to pay attention to learners’ IDs with regard to proficiency-level differences, while learners’ characteristics and learning preferences are not in the focus; however, this would be a positive move towards increasing the efficiency of language learning. 
● Language teachers regarded focusing on learners’ IDs as important yet quite challenging and time-consuming, and they were not confident about how to focus on IDs effectively. 
● To mitigate this, it would be beneficial to provide learners with a variety of inputs and guide them through style preferences and learning strategies to maximise the capacities of each learner. 
● Language teachers could reconsider the usefulness of new technological advancements (e.g., gamification) in the quest of focusing on IDs. 
● Raising awareness of practices that cater for IDs would be imperative in enhancing the effectiveness of language learning, even during teacher training. 
● Language teachers are thus encouraged to be attentive to learners’ IDs: the focus is on teaching flexibility; as there is no "one-size-fits-all" approach for learners, there is no recipe for the "perfect" practice that takes IDs into account. 
● As this study is limited to the Hungarian context, further studies are needed to explore whether the present findings hold in different contexts and when teaching languages other than English. Classroom observations may also help examine whether teachers’ beliefs indeed affect their teaching practices. 