
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Learning vocabulary in a second language does not only involve learning a lot of words but also a lot of multiword expressions. Research has demonstrated that proficiency in a second language and knowledge of multiword expressions are strongly associated. Yet, research of how well certain classroom activities help learners to pick up expressions from discourse remains scarce. This article examines two listening-based activities with a long history in language teaching, but whose role in the acquisition of expressions has not attracted much attention— dictation and dictogloss. This study therefore gauged the benefits of these two activities for learning expressions in comparison to a condition where students listened to the same text to answer comprehension questions. The results suggest that both dictogloss and dictation were more effective in promoting expression learning than answering comprehension questions about the text. 
What the researchers did
 
● 142 Chinese learners of English as a foreign language first engaged in one of three listening-plus-writing activities: dictation, dictogloss, and answering text comprehension questions. In a dictation, students write down text segments immediately after they hear them. In a dictogloss, students try to reconstruct a text from memory. In both cases, students afterwards compare their version with the original text, and make modifications to their version if necessary. The activity where students listened to the text to answer comprehension question group served as a “baseline” condition in the experiment, to put the learning outcomes from dictation and dictogloss into perspective. 
● At the stage where the students compared their version of the text to the original text, they were asked to use a different colour to make corrections to what they had written down during their respective listening tasks. 
● The learners were given a test immediately after the activities (immediate posttest) and again two weeks later (delayed posttest) concerning 10 expressions from the text. 
● The researchers distinguished between the expressions that students already wrote down accurately on their worksheets before they checked their work against the original text and the ones that were added or amended afterwards. 
What the researchers found
 
● Both dictation and dictogloss led to better test scores than answering comprehension questions in the immediate posttest, but a lot of forgetting occurred by the time of the delayed test, and this most noticeably so for the dictation group. 
● Comparisons of the dictogloss worksheets and the posttests reveal that it was when students successfully recalled expressions during their text-reconstruction task that they stood a good chance of recalling these expressions also in the subsequent tests. Expressions added or amended at the stage when the students checked their work were less likely to be retained in memory. It is therefore important to implement dictogloss activities in a way that ensures a high degree of success when the students try to reconstruct the text—thus reaping the benefits of retrieval-from-memory practice (a dimension that is virtually absent from a standard dictation). 
Things to consider
 
● This study did not just apply a pretest–task–posttest design, where it is not clear how learners experience their task, but also examined the learners’ worksheets to assess how they engaged with the expressions of interest during their respective tasks. 
● The latter data were crucial to determine what learning mechanisms contribute the most to the acquisition of expressions from activities such as dictogloss, and thus to propose ways of implementing these activities more effectively. Data, materials, open access article: open access article | materials available on https://www.iris-database.org 