
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The field of instructed second language acquisition attempts to “understand second language (L2) learning and teaching issues in instructional settings and examine pedagogical interventions that help learners develop L2 skills more efficiently and effectively” (Sato & Loewen, 2019, p. 1). With such a scope, the ultimate goal of many researchers is to facilitate the use of their research in the L2 classroom. Despite this goal, there is a longstanding gap between L2 research and L2 pedagogy. In order to improve the relationship between research and pedagogy, it is necessary to understand why the gap has not narrowed over time. The present study explored the research-pedagogy gap by examining language teachers’ beliefs of L2 research. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recruited 107 L2 teachers from seven research-oriented Ivy League universities in the United States (Brown, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Penn, Princeton, Yale). 
● Of the 107 teachers, 69 were full-time L2 instructors, 21 were language program directors, and 17 were graduate students. 
● A survey and interviews were used to explore the teachers’ beliefs about L2 research, including their understanding and use of L2 research. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers’ beliefs about L2 research were overall positive but differed depending on their roles at their universities: language program directors found L2 research most useful and were most engaged with it, followed by full-time L2 instructors and graduate students. 
● Although teachers found research useful, most of them did not report reading L2 research on a regular basis. 
● This gap between teacher beliefs of usefulness of L2 research and their actual engagement with it was explained by institutional research culture: teachers did not feel very encouraged by their institutions to incorporate research into their teaching, and they did not feel adequately rewarded when they did. 
● Graduate students in particular were disengaged with L2 research and reported that there were no incentives for them to read or use L2 research. 
Things to consider
 
● To encourage teachers to engage with L2 research, it would be beneficial to give them time to do so (e.g., course releases) and to explore some kind of reward system. Although changing institutional cultures and systems may take time, the present study showed that they play a significant role in the ways in which teachers perceive research. 
● Because the majority of language courses at research-oriented universities in the United States are taught by graduate students, it is particularly important to connect graduate students with L2 research and reward them for incorporating research into their teaching. The present study shows the potential of influencing teachers, including graduate student teachers, with the ultimate goal of better learning outcomes in L2 classrooms. 
● Since this study was administered within a specific context (research-oriented universities where instructors had access to research), we cannot generalize the findings to other contexts where teachers do not have easy access to research because their institution is not focused on research. 