
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Exposure to a language through reading and/or listening is an essential first step in mastering any language. Unlike first and second language contexts, foreign language (FL) learners do not typically have much natural exposure in their daily lives. Exposure comes mostly from FL classes, beyond which it often becomes a personal choice, resulting in great individual differences. The present study examined the experiences and views of eight successful English as a foreign language (EFL) learners, all of whom had received abundant input during their respective English-learning journeys. The data were collected from a questionnaire and in-depth individual interviews. There were several interesting findings which bear significance for theory and praxis. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants completed a questionnaire individually about their views of learning English through reading and listening, and their experiences in their English learning journeys. 
● They were then interviewed individually. Based partly on their completed questionnaires, the interviews focused on elaborating their perceptions and experiences with listening and reading. 
● The interviews were recorded and transcribed. The transcript contents were then analyzed. The end product was a list of themes (content categories).  
What the researchers found
 
● Each of the eight learners had walked a unique path (see Results I in the article; these mini-cases are easy to read and supported by direct quotes from the learners themselves). 
● Based on all eight cases, four significant themes emerged: 
● Hedonism (the pursuit of pleasure itself) was a core element in their engagement with language input. When exposed to the FL, the learners’ primary focus was on neither language nor learning. Instead, they were simply experiencing pleasure.  
● For the learners, spoken input (listening) had some benefits over written input (reading). They found listening to be less boring and more convenient, require less concentration, and allow multi-tasking. They also liked that listening features sounds (e.g., laughter, crying) and the human voice, and it often co-exists with visuals (e.g., movies).  
● The learners’ accounts reflected that it was not a must to be exposed to both forms of input in outside-class contexts for successful FL learning. Most participants enjoyed one but not both forms of input. 
● Common sense often dictates that reading facilitates writing development, and listening facilitates speaking; the participants gave enlightening descriptions of how reading and listening can also benefit speaking and writing respectively.  
Things to consider
 
● Greater attention should be given to linguistic input beyond the classroom, especially in FL contexts. Educators should endeavour to assist learners to expose themselves to English by exploring topics and resources they find pleasurable, and to do so as much as possible beyond the classroom. 
● Learning a language is a long journey; learning an FL can be like an odyssey. Hedonism is one possible key to success; transforming learning into entertainment can help to fulfil the primordial human need for pleasure. 
● In many EFL educational settings, reading is emphasized far more than listening. The experiences and views of the participants provided important food for thought about the potential of audio(-visual) input in learners’ EFL journeys. 
● The findings revealed that it is not necessary to be exposed to equal amounts of spoken and written input. It is, therefore, at times a good idea to leave learners to make their own decisions about reading or listening in outside-class contexts, especially because of the wide acceptance of self-directed learning nowadays. 
● Reading is not the only way to improve writing; the same applies to listening as a means to improving speaking. It is worthwhile to examine what contributions listening/reading has to offer to writing/speaking development. 