
What this research was about and why it is important 
 People of color living within the western cultures have been mocked, stigmatized, and discriminated against based on their language use, such as different accents, heritage languages, and limited language proficiency. We call this kind of discrimination linguistic racism. It is quite common for Asians in the U.S. to experience linguistic racism, which is a type of symbolic violence. This type of symbolic violence is a direct or sometimes indirect verbal and nonverbal violence through white gaze, which is a cultural assumption that checks or judges what racialized minorities say and do. However, it is not common for those victims to resist linguistic racism since they do not have the privilege to speak up. It is not easy to understand the complexity of how, why, and to what extent immigrants experience linguistic racism in the dominant English-speaking society and their multiple resistance strategies to fight linguistic racism. This article presents a case study drawing on an international student in the US who has been experiencing various forms of linguistic racism as symbolic violence. We take a narrative analysis approach to analyze Hong’s encounters with linguistic racism in various public places to address two research questions: RQ 1: To what extent, how and why does Hong experience linguistic racism as symbolic violence? RQ 2: To what extent, how and why does Hong resist linguistic racism as symbolic violence? We argue that the triad of linguistic racism, symbolic violence, and white gaze works with each other to construct an intersection, which reproduces and reinforces structures of domination and hierarchy. We also suggest that more research is needed to deconstruct the complexity and subtlety of the intersection of linguistic racism, symbolic violence, and white gaze. We also provide insights into educational implications for recognizing and combating linguistic racism. 
What the researchers did
 
● The first author interviewed Hong three times and audio-recorded all the interviews. The first author asked Hong twice to make sure that the transcription was correct. 
● The two researchers analyzed Hong’s narratives together and reciprocally interrogated and challenged each other’s assumptions about Hong’s encounters with linguistic racism, which reduced biases and increased trustworthiness. 
What the researchers found
 
● Hong’s narrative showed that he has experienced verbal and nonverbal linguistic racism in both interpersonal and institutional settings, which caused Hong language inferiority complexes, physical pain, and psychological disparity. 
● Hong indirectly and sometimes directly resisted linguistic racism, such as silently and purposefully refusing to answer the chef’s question in the Japanese restaurant, promptly confronting the cashier’s criticism of using Chinese by asking her “Why should I not speak my own language in public in America?” at Wal-Mart, and insisting on sitting with his Chinese classmates as a response to his instructors’ intention to breakup “Chinatown” in one of his English classes at the English Language Institute. Hong also used his Chinese name and keepsakes as a source to resist linguistic racism because he believed that those symbolic and material artifacts carried his family’s expectations, that is, to become strong, resilient, and successful. 
Things to consider
 
● We advocate that education about linguistic racism should be embedded into the curriculum and instruction from Pre-K to the tertiary level. It is necessary to awaken people of color from numbness and ignorance about linguistic racism and to educate them to recognize the danger of keeping silent. ● It is important to teach students of color to recognize the value of their cultural and linguistic heritage and to develop mechanisms for resisting linguistic racism through cherishing and keeping that heritage. 
