
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The use of a spoken Arabic variety alongside Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) in everyday interactions is a regular practice of first-language (L1) speakers of Arabic. It is also necessary to perform socially appropriate speech acts (e.g., apologizing for being late). Could the ability to engage in such bidialectal practices be used as an indicator of pragmatic competence in Arabic as a second language (L2)? This study explored this question in the context of L2 Arabic college learners doing a short-term study-abroad program in Jordan. Learners’ ability to do speech acts in Arabic was found to improve thanks to their increased ability to use the spoken Arabic variety they were exposed to during the study abroad. What the researcher did 
● The study involved 21 L1 English speakers from the USA, all in their early 20s, enrolled in an 8-week study-abroad program in Jordan, and 15 L1 Jordanian Arabic-speaking university students, also in their early 20s. 
● The researcher recorded oral responses to a discourse completion task (DCT) that elicited 2 requests, 2 refusals, and 2 apologies in Arabic. The spoken DCT was administered during the first and last week of the 8-week program. 
● The learners’ L2 speech was rated for appropriateness (relative reliance on MSA vs. spoken variety). Their bidialectal practices were categorized and counted (e.g., ‘money’ as fluus or mas: aarii in Jordanian Arabic vs. fuluus in MSA; ‘I like’ as bah: ib or ?ah: ib in Jordanian Arabic vs. ?uh: ib in MSA). And their pragmatic strategies were analyzed (e.g., whether they included expressions of regret when refusing to lend money to a friend). What the researcher found 
● L2 sojourners showed consistent and clear gains in their L2 pragmatic competence by the end of the 8-week study-abroad program, including better context appropriateness. 
● They increasingly used more Jordanian Arabic, which directly drove an increase in the average number of words in the post-DCT. 
● While L2 speakers’ responses differed from L1 speakers’ in specificity, directness, and other parameters, the findings also indicated a rise in the number of pragmatic strategies in all three speech acts and convergence in many cases towards strategies preferred by the L1 participants. 
Things to consider
 
● Future L2 pragmatic research should adopt bidialectal perspectives when studying Arabic learners’ pragmatic development. 
● Some differences in pragmatic strategies between L2 and L1 speakers of Arabic in the study might be addressed if L2 learners had more access to regional dialects. 
● The link between the ability to use the spoken varieties of Arabic and being pragmatically appropriate in everyday social interactions supports recent calls made by researchers in the L2 Arabic field to integrate MSA and other varieties in L2 Arabic curricula. 