
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Large-scale international mobility has contributed to the diversification of the classroom environment. Newly arrived students often have no or little knowledge of the teaching language and the routines that teachers and peers use in the classroom. What kind of tools could teachers use to facilitate the learning process and the integration of these newcomers? How can peers support their new classmates? To shed some lights on these concerns, the present study examined a newcomer’s second language (L2) learning and the competence to use the L2 through his interactions with educators and peers of similar age. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers chose to study the early childhood education and care stage and focused on an adopted novice-newcomer of under 3-year-old who recently arrived in Finland from an Asian country. He had little knowledge of the Finnish language and classroom routines when the first researcher started the video-recordings of the classroom activity. 
● The researchers focused on 13 video recordings of mealtime sessions over the course of 3 months. 
● The researchers labelled the interaction moments between the newcomer and his peers and educators during the mealtime, including verbal interactions, gestures, touch and eye-gaze. 
What the researchers found
 
● Naming is a commonly used strategy by educators and well-received by the younger newcomer in the second language learning. 
● Educators’ responsiveness contributes to create a safe environment for the younger newcomer and encourages his language use. 
● Peer interactions among under 3-year-olds are not as supportive as among older ones in the newcomer’s language learning. 
Things to consider
 
● Peer interactions with the newcomer seem to happen towards the end of the 3-month period of video-recordings. Peer interactions should be considered as important opportunities for the newcomer’s language learning and language use. 
● The under 3-year-old children have equal needs of educators’ attention. It is a challenge for educators to balance between equality and recognition of children’s diverse needs in a multicultural classroom. 