
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Sometimes when they are speaking, beginning language learners will use a finger to write out a word in the air, or use their whole hand to map out a sentence on the table as they say it. In those moments they seem to be visualizing the written language as they speak it, especially when they are focused on difficult grammar or when they are marking a word as unusual in some way. This study uses a micro-sociological approach known as Conversation Analysis (CA) to document occasions when learners use these writing gestures as they talk. The study suggests that learners can support their spoken interaction by visualizing written grammar or words. Even though such visualization might seem like a private ‘in-the-head’ process, the learners’ well-timed use of gaze and gesture also make it a social matter that is relevant for the person they are talking to. The study therefore provides insight into some of the practical, moment-to-moment ways people make their thought processes available to others, particularly when navigating an unfamiliar language. 
What the researchers did
 
● 94 pairs of Japanese learners were video-recorded speaking English during discussion tests. These tests were part of the learner’s English class and were not originally collected as part of the study, meaning that they are naturally occurring conversations even though they also serve the institutional purpose of speaking assessment. 
● The researchers carefully transcribed the conversations. Their transcripts included details about how the speakers talked, such as the pace, volume, and emphasis, as well as specific notes on gestures, gaze direction and the like. 
● Collections of similar interactional practices were grouped together and were analyzed via a careful description from the perspective of the test-takers themselves. 
What the researchers found
 
● One way the test-takers showed that they were visualizing text was by using their fingers to ‘write’ words on their palms or in the air. This ‘air writing’ usually involved a single word within the turn, and the gesture was designed to mark that word as somehow special. For example, sometimes it was a Japanese word in an English sentence, or a word that the speaker was searching for or seemed uncertain about. 
● In other cases, the speaker visualized a whole sentence by slotting out elements of the turn in the air or on the table with a cupped hand. They would shift their hand in this ‘slotting’ gesture from left to right as they said each word to display to the other learner that they are visualizing parts of the turn. This interactional practice seemed to focus particularly on the grammar of the turn as it emerged.  
Things to consider
 
● Whether or not the speaker was actually seeing text is not the issue in this study. Rather, the point is that they were doing a display of visualizing text that becomes relevant to the other person (the recipient). The recipient interpreted the visualization as relevant to the production of the speaker’s unfinished turn and therefore usually waited until the turn was finished. Doing visualization therefore shows the listener how the speaker’s turn is progressing and is therefore an important interactional practice for beginning language learners. 
● The speaker’s gaze direction suggested they were imagining text in the air or on the table, while hand gestures produced at the same time as spoken language helped specify what the words are and how the sentence was coming together. The timing of the speaker’s gestures and talk therefore became a resource for the recipient and a window into the speaker's current English proficiency. 
● Recalling a written word may also help the speaker access to produce the spoken version. 
● Although the analysis is based on talk recorded during a discussion test, the same interactional practices are likely to be used in everyday second-language conversation as well, and they are probably not limited to just language learners either. 