
What this research was about and why it is important 
 For international students, identity (trans)formation and social network development play a crucial role in their second language (L2) learning during study abroad, but individuals’ decisions and choices while engaging in these processes remain underexplored. This longitudinal case study drew on the notion of agency to examine how identity and social network are negotiated in the socialization experiences of three international students learning Chinese as an additional language in China. Analysis of social network questionnaires, interviews, observational field notes and supplementary data revealed that all cases have demonstrated agency in mobilizing linguistic and cultural resources to construct identities and build social ties. However, individual agency varied and depended on personal histories and contextual variables such as previous social relationships, host community receptivity, and social network types. Furthermore, agency was not always readily available to all, but it was enacted and exercised in the process of negotiating identity (trans)formation and social network development in L2 socialization. 
What the researchers did
 
● The three focal cases (Lamai, Thong and Roza) were all female students, including two Thai and one Kyrgyz. They all reported high Chinese proficiency and had rich study abroad experiences in China. 
● Ethnographic interviews were conducted at the start and end of the study to ask students (1) how they engaged in identity construction and social network development while studying in China and (2) how they addressed the challenges of Chinese language learning. The social network questionnaire was administered once at the midpoint. This interview-questionnaire-interview cycle helped to capture the changes in students’ social networks and elicit their personal explanations about the network patterns. 
● Observational field notes were taken and other supplementary data (e.g., lecture notes, homework, WeChat posts, email interactions) were collected to capture students’ language use in real-life situations. 
What the researchers found
 
● The three cases demonstrated distinctive socialization trajectories: Lamai developed positive identity and cumulative interpersonal connections and enacted agency to overcome challenges in the new academic environment. Thong benefited from richer cultural learning opportunities in a Chinese medium degree program to shift her identity and establish wider connections. Roza self-directed her L2 Chinese socialization when facing limited network access and heritage identity crisis. 
● These individualized socialization paths were shaped by individuals’ personal histories and identities and conditioned by the available socializing opportunities in their situated environment. 
● The cases have highlighted L2 socialization not as a linear process but a “bumpy” journey which did not unfold in an entirely positive or negative direction and was subject to the mediation of agency. 
Things to consider
 
● The study highlights agency in the nexus of identity and social network and calls for research efforts to exploring the individual and social factors shaping international students’ access to their agentive resources and directing more attention to changes in individual agency under different circumstances over time. 
● Researchers need to acknowledge international students’ personal histories and guide them to appreciate and capitalize on these resources to foster positive identities in the new academic context. 
● Teachers can design and incorporate collaboration tasks/projects that aim to promote both in-class and out-of-class communication and interactions between international and local students. 
● Program- and institution-level support should also be in place to create favorable socializing conditions for international students. 