
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Recently, peer feedback (PF) has become increasingly popular in language classrooms. It can be used alongside or instead of teacher feedback (TF), and several studies have shown that it can be as effective as TF under the right circumstances. While it might be less accurate and focused than TF, researchers have argued that it is effective because learners take a more active role when they also provide feedback rather than just receiving it. But what are learners’ beliefs about and their experiences with PF? Moreover, do their beliefs change after they participated in a learning unit using PF? And is there a difference between providers and receivers of PF? 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited 127 first-year learners of German at three different universities in the U.S. 
● They assigned the learners to one of four groups, such that learners were either (1) providing PF (PF Providers), (2) receiving PF (PF Receivers), (3) receiving TF (TF Receivers), or (4) part of a control group. 
● They had all learners fill out a questionnaire with 20 items to be rated on a 5-point scale and two open ended questions asking learners about the advantages and disadvantages of PF (“Beliefs Questionnaire”). 
● After the PF Providers, the PF Receivers, and the TF Receivers completed a short pronunciation training, all learners submitted a recording of 24 German sentences. Each learner in the PF Provider group was assigned a partner in the PF Receiver group. o Day 1: the PF Providers listened to their partner’s recording and gave them oral feedback on their pronunciation. o Day 2a: the PF Receivers used the feedback they had received from their partner to re-record the original 24 sentences. o Day 2b: the TF Receivers received oral feedback from a teacher rather than from a peer and then completed the same step as the PF Receivers. 
● After two rounds of this intervention, the researchers had the learners fill out the same “Beliefs Questionnaire” again and additionally gave them an “Exit Questionnaire” asking them about their experiences with either providing PF, receiving PF, or receiving TF. The Exit Questionnaire also consisted of statements to be rated on a 5-point scale as well as some open-ended questions. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, all learners held positive beliefs about PF. 
● Even though all learners already held positive beliefs about PF before the PF activities, the PF Providers’ beliefs were even more positive after the activities, whereas the PF Receivers’ beliefs did not change. 
● A comparison of PF Receivers and TF Receivers showed that, overall, learners who had received feedback from their teacher appreciated that feedback more and found it more useful. However, PF Receivers also appreciated the personalized feedback from their peers and believed that it was beneficial for their learning. 
● Many of the PF Providers reported that they felt uncomfortable correcting their partners because they were worried about hurting their peers’ feelings, but when asked, the PF Receivers did not report feeling uncomfortable or hurt when they received feedback. 
Things to consider
 
● Because learners’ beliefs about PF and their experiences with it are overall positive, instructors can feel confident using it in the classroom. 
● The researchers saw a discrepancy between PF Providers, who were concerned about hurting their partner’s feelings, and PF Receivers, who did not feel upset because of the feedback. This suggests that it might be helpful to discuss this topic with the learners before using PF in the classroom. Addressing this ahead of time might lower learners’ anxiety or worries about PF. 