
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The pedagogical potency of captions—verbatim transcript in the same language as the spoken narration—has been established by a proliferation of studies on various aspects of second-language (L2) acquisition. But researchers are still debating whether the-more-the-merrier view applies to the use of video material as a pedagogical tool. That is, scholars are still trying establish whether adding ‘more’ multimodal semiotic cues (such as adding captions and inclusion of various dynamic visuals) to video viewing materials would optimize L2 learners’ learning outcomes. The study is inspired by the theoretical premise from cognitive science that the amount of presented information should not exceed human’s finite mental capacity. In light of this, the current study aims to explore whether the reduction of multimodal comprehension aids leads to better comprehension gain; and if so, which type of reduction (verbal vs. nonverbal) is more beneficial. Verbal reduction means the amount of transcribed spoken discourse, i.e., full vs. partial captions; nonverbal reduction means the amount of presented verbal visuals, i.e., dynamic animation vs. static key frames (a series of static screenshots). The findings of this research may shed light on the optimal use and design of video materials for L2 learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● 62 upper-intermediate students (age 17-18) majoring applied English at a public vocational high school in Northern Taiwan participated in this study; they were randomly assigned to one of the following video viewing conditions: (1) full captions + animation, (2) full captions + static key frames, (3) partial captions + animation, (4) partial captions + static key frames. 
● The viewing video material was selected from Ted-Ed, following three main criteria: topic familiarity, content genre, and difficulty level. First, the topic of the video was familiar to the participants. Second, the video used in this study did not include materials that completely presented concrete and factual information, as such materials may not be the most feasible genre for measuring inferential comprehension. Finally, it was ensured that the video used in this study that matched the participants’ language proficiency. 
● The comprehension test consisted of twelve multiple-choice questions, among which four items assessed global understanding (e.g., gist), another four items gauged local understanding (e.g., details), and the other four items required inference making.  
What the researchers found
 
● The results showed that while viewing the video with reduced nonverbal visual information (i.e., static key frames), L2 learners’ local comprehension was particularly enhanced when the video content was accompanied by full captions, which was suggestive of the prominent role of ‘sufficient’ verbal input in aiding the processing of details of multimodal content. Notably, this advantage in verbal processing was more clear when L2 learners viewed the video displayed in the form of keyframes. In other words, reduction in nonverbal visuals leverages L2 learners’ use of verbal input. 
● The qualitative data also revealed that while the participants enjoyed the rich visual stimuli in animation, it was considered distracting, thus debilitating overall comprehension.  
Things to consider
 
● Key-framed videos with full captions can be a particularly effective multimedia material, especially when the objective of a class concerns with learning for details. With the slow-changing backdrop of the video, L2 (remedial) learners can focus on the captions in a more consistent manner, which may jointly help them process the text deeper and achieve better content learning. 
● Static visuals in the key-framed viewing conditions are more likely to induce L2 learners to generate reasonable guesses and fill in the comprehension gaps due to ‘missing details in visuals.’ 