
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Traditionally, second language grammar topics like verb aspect and prepositions are taught with rules and lists that seem disconnected and arbitrary. In contrast, an applied Cognitive Linguists teaching approach teaches them as systematically connected units that can be explained in terms of construal, or humans’ particular ways of perceiving of the world around them. Prior studies have found applied Cognitive Linguists to be effective generally but have noted the need for more practical research inside real classrooms to test out specific Cognitive Linguists-based methods for specific learner populations, and especially for learners of different abilities. Here, 30 college-level true beginners of Spanish were taught the concept of aspect via boundedness, that is, that the preterite and imperfect tenses present two different viewpoints of past situations, either bounded (preterite) or unbounded (imperfect). They were also taught the Spanish prepositions por and para via networks of meanings related in terms of construal. Learners made improvement on tests of both aspect and prepositions, and their individual differences did not predict their gain scores. 
What the researchers did
 
● 30 college students in a beginning Spanish course were taught the prepositions por and para over three class sessions with an animated video series that showed principled connections between the many uses of each preposition and its core meaning. They took gap fill and multiple-choice tests before, immediately after, and 8 weeks after instruction. 
● The same learners were taught the concept of boundedness over three class sessions with an animated video series that visualized the boundedness of a speaker’s viewpoint when talking about the past. They took a multiple-choice test and an oral story re-tell test just after instruction. 
● Researchers measured students’ individual differences in executive function, working memory, grammatical sensitivity, motivation, and learning style. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners achieved high accuracy on both aspect and prepositions after instruction and performed better than comparable groups found at the same institution as well as in learner corpora. 
● None of the individual difference measures was found to predict how much learners improved after instruction.  
Things to consider
 
● The results suggested that novice learners can benefit from the applied Cognitive Linguists approach. 
● Even though applied Cognitive Linguists involves relatively complex, abstract, metaphoric, and visual input that might seem best suited to certain types of learners, the results suggested that learners’ improvement here was not predicted by their individual differences. 
● However, the participants recruited were a small group of relatively homogeneous learners, so future research should investigate the possible relationship between applied Cognitive Linguists and learners’ individual differences with other populations as well. 