
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Today, we observe a strong increase in learners’ self-initiated use of English out-of-class, also known as extramural English. This entails both new opportunities and challenges in learning and teaching English. To compare more and less English-rich countries in terms of these aspects, a cross-national study was conducted. Secondary English teachers from Austria, France, Finland, and Sweden answered an online survey on their students’ extramural English practices and the perceived impact on teaching and learning. While Austria and France rely widely on dubbing practices, replacing original audio tracks of foreign language movies and series by translations in the country’s majority language, such media are supplemented by subtitles in the case of Finland and Sweden. Since this implies that people in Finland and Sweden are in contact with English on a more regular basis, we expected teachers in these countries to more frequently account for this reality in their teaching. This assumption was partly confirmed in the present study.  
What the researchers did
 
● In total, 534 secondary school English teachers filled in an online survey. This comprised teachers from Academic High Schools and Vocational Colleges in Austria (learner age: 10–19), Comprehensive School levels 7–9 and Secondary Schools in Finland and Sweden (learner age: 13–18), and Middle and High Schools in France (learner age: 11–18). Teachers were asked to estimate… 1 how common different types of English activities were in their learners’ spare time (listening to music, listening 2 to other audios, viewing videos, viewing other audio-visuals, writing, gaming); to what extent different areas of language learning (reading, listening, writing, and speaking skills, grammar knowledge, vocabulary knowledge, informal language use, formal language use, learner confidence, learner motivation) were affected (positively/negatively) by such language use; 3 and, based on 10 statements, what role they attribute to (a) connecting learners’ extramural English and instruction, (b) incorporating material learners use extramurally in class, and (c) compensating for learners’ informal language use in instruction. 
● Through different statistical tests (see the original article), it was analyzed to what extent the four teacher groups differed with respect to their reports on the three aspects listed above. 
What the researchers found
 1 According to the teacher reports, the four countries appeared to be similar in the relative popularity of the different extramural English activities among secondary students. However, while French teachers reported the lowest levels of extramural English, reports from the other three countries yielded comparable numbers. 2 The reported estimated effect of out-of-class English on different areas of learning overall was the weakest among French teachers, followed by Austria and in turn Finland/Sweden. 3 Teachers across countries reported attributing an equally important role to (a) connecting extramural English and instruction and (b) embedding material learners use extramurally in class. However, (c) teachers in Finland and Sweden agreed more strongly than the other groups with statements that suggested they adapt instruction to what is not (sufficiently) developed out-of-class (e.g., formal language use). 
Things to consider
 
● The cross-country differences found in learners’ levels of out-of-class English, as reported by teachers, seem to reflect the general availability of English media in a given country, which is influenced by a country’s subtitling or dubbing practices and linguistic ideologies rooted in the geo-cultural context at hand. 
● As informal use of English is growing, individual learner needs within a class may increasingly have to be accounted for in teaching practices. This may require a focus on specific types of knowledge or skills (e.g., learners’ ability to distinguish between formal and informal English use and to use both registers) and/or the integration of specific material (e.g., material of interest to the learners to create and/or sustain their motivation in class). 
● The study has several limitations. Most importantly, the teacher samples cannot be assumed to fully represent the four countries, and teacher reports may not mirror actual student and teacher practices. 