
What this research was about and why it is important 
 English has become the most spoken language worldwide, and therefore, a lot of research has focused on examining how it is learned. One of the areas that has received considerable attention is the debate between native and non-native teachers of English, raising the question of who is perceived as the best language teacher. However, the emergence of such debate has caused the assignment of certain characteristics to each type of teacher, with non-natives being the ones typically linked with negative assumptions. This study analyzed the effect of different characteristics, such as attendance to extracurricular English classes or teachers’ studies, on students’, parents’, and teachers’ preferences for native and non-native teachers of English. Results indicated that for students, course, attendance to extracurricular English classes, and current type of teacher, influenced their preference for native or non-native teachers. For teachers, their gender, country of origin, and their own status as a native or non-native teacher influence their preferences. The data from this study is relevant for the understanding of the prejudices towards the two types of teachers, as well as for the identification of variables that may be influencing students’, parents’, and teachers’ attitudes and prejudices. These results are expected to help English learners and teachers to reflect on their judgements of native and non-native teachers’ teaching abilities and consequently improve the learning and teaching of the language. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers used questionnaires and group discussions to gather information from 507 secondary and high-school English language learners, parents, and native and non-native teachers of English in the Basque Country participated in the study, 
● The main goal of the study was to analyse the three groups’ preferences for native or non-native teachers in specific areas and to examine to what extent different characteristics (variables) influenced their teacher preferences. To do so, the following variables were controlled: age, gender, first language, country of origin, course, attendance to extracurricular English classes, educational level, type of teacher, spoken languages, university degrees, teaching experience, and taught subjects. 
What the researchers found
 
● Some of the examined variables influenced participants’ preferences for native or non-native teachers. 
● Students’ type of teacher and attendance to extracurricular English classes affected their responses. 
● Students attending English classes outside school had a stronger preference for native teachers than those who limited their English classes to school 
● Learners currently taught by non-native teachers had a preference for native teachers. 
● Parent responses were not influenced by any of the analysed variables. 
● Teachers’ gender and countries of origin had an impact on their preferences. While female teachers had a preference for non-native teachers, males did not display a clear teacher preference. 
● Finally, native teachers had a preference for themselves and non-native teachers leaned towards themselves. 
Things to consider
 
● From a pedagogical perspective, this study has revealed that private language academies influence students’ perceptions of native and non-native teachers, uplifting the figure of natives. If the existing gap between native and non-native teachers wants to be overcome, private language academies’ promotion of native teachers should be tackled. 
● There were some limitations to this study: only secondary and high-school students were studied and not all the possible variables were controlled. Future investigations could broaden the scope and investigate adult/university students and examine other variables like students’ English proficiency. 