
What this research was about and why it is important 
 During conversation, interlocutors tend to adopt and re-use each other’s behaviors and language, which is believed to improve their conversational experience. Interlocutors also track each other’s emotional states and levels of engagement as they communicate, and these evaluative judgments might have consequences for how they view conversational success. However, it is presently unknown how closely these judgments are shared between interlocutors and whether these judgments contribute to interlocutor perceptions of interaction success. Therefore, in this study, the researchers engaged second language speakers in a conversation, asking them to evaluate each other along several linguistic, affective, and behavioral dimensions (including fluency, comprehensibility, motivation, anxiety, collaboration), exploring whether these judgments predicted the speakers’ perception of their interaction success. Even though all dimensions of interaction were associated with communicative success, perceived collaboration emerged as the strongest predictor. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers sampled 84 pairs of international university students (all second language speakers of English) from an existing corpus. The students completed a 10-minute academic discussion task in pairs, summarizing brief research reports and discussing their opinions. 
● At the end of the task, the students rated each other for comprehensibility (ease of understanding), fluency (flow of speech), anxiety (degree of stress or nervousness), motivation (extent of engagement or enthusiasm), and collaboration (working with someone to produce something) using 100-point scales. 
● At the end of the interaction, the students also assessed the overall communicative success of their conversational experience using similar scales. 
What the researchers found
 
● The students were generally aligned in their perceptions of each other, meaning that they provided similar evaluations of each other for all rated dimensions. However, some conversation partners were more aligned in their views of each other than other conversation partners. 
● The extent to which the students converged in their evaluations of each other predicted how positively they viewed their conversation success. Those pairs who perceived each other similarly in terms of comprehensibility, fluency, anxiety, motivation, and collaboration also felt more satisfied with their communication outcome. 
● The strongest predictor of communication success was the students’ perception of each other’s collaboration. 
Things to consider
 
● Interlocutors’ perceptions of each other during conversation might be useful as broad measures of their communication success, in addition to more specific metrics, such as task completion or linguistic accuracy. 
● Various collaborative behaviors, such as contributing content, yielding the floor, backchanneling, and staying on topic, might be associated with perception of communicative success, so language teachers might wish to draw their students’ attention to these behaviors in language and communication courses. 
● It would be important to examine relationships between interlocutors’ perceptions of interaction success and their actual verbal and nonverbal behaviors, preferably across a range of speaking tasks, because both perceptions and behaviors might be task specific. 