
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Mobile-assisted language learning (MALL) has been around for over three decades, but unfortunately, still remains marginal to second/foreign language (L2) education. Specifically, mobile applications (apps) have been emerging as a popular supplement and/or alternative to L2 learning in both face-to-face and online settings. However, low learner engagement persists as a widespread issue in app-based L2 learning, and research has not yet provided an effective solution. As a response, we drew on the latest proposal of adopting goal-setting with feedback as teaching strategies and developed ready-to-use pedagogical tools for instructors to adapt into their own L2 classrooms. By comparing a treatment group who completed goal-setting-and-checking activities with a control group who did not, we showed the effectiveness of goal-setting-and-checking activities in engaging Japanese university students in using a mobile app to self-study English vocabulary as an after-class assignment. Also, we collected learner ratings and comments on two supplementary feedback tools, namely, Unfinished Lists (lists of students who did not finish the app-based self-study assignments), and leaderboards (student rankings based on assignment performance), in addition to the goal-setting-and-checking activities. Our findings supported these pedagogical interventions as generally effective, and we offered practical suggestions to guide L2 teachers to adapt them into their own educational contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● Introduced the Memrise mobile app and provided training on its installation and use during class. 
● Created free accounts for individual learners in four sections of an upper-intermediate English as a Foreign Language (EFL) course to join a TOEIC vocabulary course. 
● Randomly assigned two of the four sections to a treatment group and the other two to a control group.  
● Designed a Goal-Setting-and-Checking Sheet for the treatment group to set and check their study goals weekly. 
● Compiled an Unfinished List for both the treatment and control groups to display in class the student ID numbers of those who did not complete the weekly app-based self-study assignment.  
● Retrieved and showed both the treatment and control groups the leaderboards in class, which were automatically generated by the Memrise app based on how much practice learners did and how well they did it. 
● Collected learners’ ratings and comments on the goal-setting-and-checking activities, the Unfinished Lists, and the leaderboards, as well as their scores of the TOEIC listening and reading tests before and after app use. 
● Compared the treatment and control groups in terms of the number of words studied weekly and TOEIC scores before (pretest) and after (posttest) using the app for eight weeks. 
● Analyzed learner ratings and comments on the goal-setting-and-checking activities, the Unfinished Lists, and the leaderboards, as well as the treatment group’s general patterns in setting and meeting their weekly study goals. 
What the researchers found
 
● The treatment group generally studied more words per week than the control group, although the TOEIC scores were not significantly different between the two groups, nor from pretest to posttest. 
● Learners rated these three pedagogical interventions as generally helpful, with the highest ratings for goal-setting-and-checking activities, followed by Unfinished Lists and leaderboards.  
● Learners gave mostly positive comments on goal-setting-and-checking activities and mostly positive and some neutral feedback on Unfinished Lists, while comments on leaderboards ranged from positive to negative. 
● Among the treatment group, most learners set weekly study goals higher than the required minimums and were able to meet their goals, and some learners studied more words than they targeted.  
Things to consider
 
● In considering app-based L2 learning, teachers are recommended to select materials related to curriculum goals. 
● For goal-setting-and-checking activities, teachers may decide minimum targets and encourage challenging goals. 
● Some learners may not pay attention to Unfinished Lists, and teachers may remind those who are on the list often. 
● Other learners may dislike leaderboards, and teachers may stress its friendly competition to improve learning. 
● When showing Unfinished Lists and leaderboards, teachers may consider private rather than public display. 
● The stable and similar TOEIC scores between the treatment and control groups may result from the short learning period (eight weeks), the insensitivity of TOEIC tests to capture small lexical development, and logistic issues. 