
What this research was about and why it is important 
 With the increasing use of technologies, some young learners (e.g., aged 7 to 15) have started taking online language classes instead of face-to-face ones due to various reasons (e.g., convenience and cost value). However, we know little about what teachers think about the benefits, issues, and challenges associated with the implementation of this type of online class, especially in terms of synchronous online peer interaction among young learners. Understanding what teachers think and believe is important because their perceptions are likely to affect their actions and decisions in their everyday teaching practices. Thus, this study explored teachers’ perceptions of online peer interaction for young learners with regard to multiple aspects: benefits, issues, frequency of use, and strategies to promote the effectiveness of this type of online interaction. The results show that teachers believed online peer interaction helped increase learners’ attention to language issues and created a supportive learning environment. Additionally, the effectiveness of online peer interaction could be maximized by teachers’ implementation of pedagogical strategies such as providing training on how to interact online, how to carry out the task and how to use online interaction tools. However, teachers believed that various factors related to learners, teachers, instruction, learning context (e.g., school context and policies) and learners/teachers’ background affected (increased or decreased) these benefits and the frequency of using online peer interaction. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers interviewed and surveyed thirty-eight online teachers of English from various private language centers in Vietnam about their perceptions of online peer interaction 
● The interview and survey explored the following aspects: 1) benefits of online peer interaction, 2) factors affecting the effectiveness and frequency of using online peer interaction, 3) teachers’ strategies to promote the benefits of online peer interaction 
● The researchers reported what teachers thought about the aforementioned aspects of online peer interaction according to themes and compared these views according to teachers’ background (e.g., teaching experience) 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers stated that online peer interaction created opportunities for learners to notice and discuss language issues (e.g., grammar, pronunciation, and spelling). 
● Teachers also believed that online peer interaction created a comfortable, supportive, and stress-free learning environment for young learners. Thus, they felt comfortable talking and helping each other via providing feedback. 
● However, teachers said that various factors affected the effectiveness and frequency of online peer interaction. They included learners’ individual differences, teachers’ instruction, grouping of learners, learners’ backgrounds, school regulations, resources, parental support, and teachers’ online teaching experience. 
● Teachers believed that in order to increase the effectiveness of online peer interaction, teachers should pay attention to their instructions, including training young learners on how to do online peer interaction. 
● Besides, the teachers with longer online teaching experience (as opposed to those will less online teaching experience) expressed stronger beliefs in the importance of training young learners on how to prepare and do online peer interaction so that the benefits of online peer interaction could be maximized. 
Things to consider
 
● From teachers’ viewpoint, it seems that online peer interaction is beneficial to young learners’ learning and practice of a second language, so it is possible to use peer interaction activities in online language classrooms for young learners. 
● Because teachers reported that many factors affected online peer interaction, for it to be beneficial, teachers need to pay attention to factors such as learners’ background, grouping, and the instructions provided. 
● Teachers suggested that training learners on how to interact online, how to carry out a language learning task, and how to use online tools is necessary because it could increase the benefits and effectiveness of online peer interaction for language learning. Materials (e.g., survey and interview prompts) are available on https://www.iris-database.org/  