
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Owing to the anytime-anywhere-anyhow nature of mobile learning together with the ubiquity of affordably priced mobile phones, language teaching/learning is gradually shifting from Computer-Assisted Language Learning to Mobile-Assisted Language Learning (MALL). In response, the current study examined the effect of MALL training on preservice and in-service EFL (English as a Foreign Language) teachers’ perceptions and use of mobile technology. Apart from their perceived ease of use, their overall perceptions improved after training and in-service teachers were more interested in mobile technology than preservice ones. In-service teachers’ use of mobile technology also improved after training reporting that they used mobile technology more in listening and speaking than in reading and writing. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 33 preservice and 31 in-service English as Foreign Language teachers. 
● Preservice teachers were junior English major college students, and they were 19-21 years old 
● In-service teachers’ ages ranged between 24 and 30 years, and their work experience was 2-5 years. 
● All participants were exposed to training on mobile-assisted language teaching/ learning 
● Training focused on awareness-raising experiences and demonstrative tutorials of the different mobile applications to be used in language teaching/learning. 
● To assess their perceptions and use of mobile technology before and after training, both closed-and open-ended question surveys were administered to both groups of teachers. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, both preservice and in-service teachers’ perceptions improved after training except for their perceived ease of use which did not. 
● Although the perceptions of both groups were similar after (and also before) training, in-service teachers were more interested in mobile technology after training than preservice ones. 
● In-service teachers’ use of mobile technology also improved after training, and their perceptions were a significant predictor of their use. 
● In-service teachers used mobile technology more in developing listening and speaking (for synchronous communication) than reading and writing. 
● In-service teachers also selected social media and translation applications as the least useful ones 
● They reported that technical and digital literacy problems are the most challenging to the use of mobile technology.  
Things to consider
 
● Overall, MALL training had a positive effect on EFL preservice and in-service teachers’ perceptions and also use of mobile technology 
● To improve their perceptions with respect to ease of use of mobile technology, it is highly recommended to provide hands-on training, not just tutorial demonstratives. 
● Differences between preservice and in-service teachers’ perceived interest after MALL training could be due to the increasing demands placed upon in-service teachers to shift to online spheres and mobile technologies, especially within current pandemic conditions. In-service teachers’ increased interest, as compared to preservice ones, can be seen as their way of responding to these demands.  
● MALL training lasted for only 6 weeks, which, despite yielding positive results, cannot be considered an adequate period for pursuing teachers’ use or perceptions, especially their perceived ease of use. 
● More research is needed to find out if other forms of MALL training (i.e., hands-on training) would yield comparable results. 