
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In the US, the English learner (EL) classification is used to make decisions about youths’ education. For example, it can influence assessment and access to courses. Institutionalized adultism – adults being seen as entitled to act upon young people and youth being seen as incapable and lacking agency – within EL policy creates an educational context where there is no requirement to communicate with youths (much less receive their consent or assent) about decisions that result from their labeling as English learners. This study centers youth knowledge and challenges institutionalized adultism by investigating how 20 adolescents understood the relationship between two routine EL practices—English language proficiency (ELP) testing and EL-related course placement—and their institutional EL classification. The primary data sources for this study are semi-structured interviews with youths that were contextualized by student records, administrator interviews, and policy documents. In the absence of mandated direct communication about their EL classification from adults, most youths did not use ELP testing or EL-related course placement to recognize their labeling. Although adult-determined significance of these routine EL practices shaped all youths’ educational trajectories, it did not dominate how most youths interpreted their significance. Youths’ interpretations of meaning were related to how they understood themselves and their experiences of schooling. What the researcher did In part two the researchers gathered information about youths’ experiences of EL policies and practices. In part one of data collection the researcher gathered information about EL policies and practices at a high school. 
● 
● Data sources for overall policies and practices included administrator interviews and various policy documents. 
● 
● Data sources for 20 youths’ experiences included youth interviews, administrator interviews, and student records. 
● Phase one of data analysis entailed detailing overall EL policies and practices at the high school. 
● The second and third phase of data analysis entailed using an intersectional anti-adultism conceptual lens to examine youths’ understandings of the relationship between two routine EL practices—EL identification and ELP testing—
EL-related course placement. 
What the researchers found
 
● Youths did not participate in ELP testing and EL-related course placement in the same ways. For instance, certain youths did not participate in ELP testing (although required) and others’ classes were variably impacted by EL label. 
● Most youths did not use either routine EL practice as a tool to recognize their EL classification. 
● There was an absence of explicit communication about their EL identification and a lack of clarity that ELP testing and/or course placement was being impacted by EL label. For instance, courses that only enrolled ELs had generic literacy-related names (e.g., reading intervention). 
● Youths’ interpretation of the significance of two routine EL practices fit into their understanding of themselves and their experiences of schooling. 
● Most youths offered visions of the meaning of ELP testing and EL-related course placement that was outside of the adult-determined significance of “limited English proficiency.” 
Things to consider
 Centering the knowledge of youth who are veterans of the EL system illustrates what can be learned when recognizing youth knowledge as valid, meaningful, and necessary for academic success. 
● Do not assume that adult-determined interpretations of the meaning of specific EL practices will have the same meaning to youth. 
● Youths’ distinct interpretations does not mean that they are wrong. Their understandings reflect their experiences of routine EL policies and practices. Moreover, these interpretations that can shed light on topics that may be hidden to adult eyes and can be an important tool in ensuring equitable education for ELs. It is important for multigenerational and intergenerational communication about policies and practices that impact EL-identified youths. It is important for youths to be aware of how EL label impacts their lives and for adults to recognize the knowledge and agency of youths. 
● 