
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The reason why I conducted this study is partly related to my previous teaching experience as an English teacher in a secondary school in Beijing. When I realised the importance of literature for second language (L2) learning, I initiated a novel-reading programme in which I encountered various difficulties. As a result, extensive reading (especially reading literature) became my focus of research. Although there have been myriad studies investigating the benefits of extensive reading (ER), a limited number of them focus on how to effectively carry out an ER programme, particularly in secondary schools. In the specific context of Chinese secondary schools, almost no studies have been conducted to explore both teachers’ and students’ opinions about ER and its implementation in secondary schools. This study not only explores and reports perceptions of both sides, but also focuses on implementation measures and strategies of two ER programmes, which led to a three-stage model for implementing ER in L2 classrooms. 
What the researchers did
 
● Two secondary teachers, one from Beijing and the other from Jiangxi province of China, participated in this study, together with 57 and 29 students respectively. In addition to geographic variation, teacher participants differed in their teaching experience and ER implementation experience. 
● Data were collected through different sources including teachers’ reflective journals (submitted to the researcher at the end of each month) and various documents related to the ER programmes (e.g., English curricula of different versions, students’ assignments, reading materials, teaching plans, exam questions related to the ER programme). 
● Data were also collected through semi-structured interviews with students and teachers. Each teacher was interviewed twice, at the beginning and the end of a semester (six months apart). 9 students, 4 from one class and 5 from another, were interviewed at the end of the semester. 
● An electronic questionnaire, comprising 11 questions, was conducted with 57 and 29 students of the two teachers to learn about their attitudes, perceptions, preferences, difficulties, and expectations of teachers in relation to ER. What the researcher found 
● The main discovery of this study is that for secondary students, teachers’ guidance and supervision are crucial for students’ sustained reading and motivation. 
● In light of this, the concept of scaffolded extensive reading is put forward to justify teachers providing learners with ongoing assistance and scaffolding. 
● Based on this concept, a three-stage model is proposed to inform teachers of three stages to teaching ER: instructed ER, collaborative ER, and independent ER. As the names indicate, these three stages respectively stress teachers’ instruction, peers’ collaboration, and students’ independent reading. 
● This study also reveals that teacher education and/or training concerning ER implementation is inadequate in the teaching contexts under investigation. 
Things to consider
 
● One problem arose in this study which merits special attention: ER implementation is alarmingly difficult in less-developed regions. Difficulties were revealed in varied forms, including students’ limited language competence, scarce reading materials, lack of school support, and teachers’ limited subject knowledge and pedagogical knowledge about ER and its implementation. 
● Another important topic for further discussion and exploration is how to help students develop the habit of reading. The three-stage model is an initial attempt in this direction, but whether or not it is applicable to various contexts needs closer examination. Future research could go further in this direction to provide more systematic measures and methods that teachers could adopt to help students cultivate such a beneficial habit. 