
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study provides an understanding of how student teachers from China may begin their practice after time in a dialogical Western TESOL(Teaching English to Students of other Languages) program. Though there are many Chinese students in Western TESOL and ELT (English Language Teaching) programs, there is scant research to inform TESOL educators about their early teaching tendencies and how to best serve their needs for professional development. Importantly, educators need to know if preservice teachers from China are receptive to a communicative language teaching (CLT) approach and how this receptivity is affected by the Confucian cultural teaching practices that they experience as students in China’s activity system of English language education. CLT uses tasks like role plays and activities to gather information through conversation. This researcher examined these questions by collecting data, including recorded post-lesson reflections, on the practicum teaching of four student teachers from China. He supervised these teachers for an American university TESOL program in practicum classrooms that encouraged CLT implementation. Like many studies from China, this study found that the student teachers reproduced cultural practices typical in China. In enacting these practices, they lectured, explained, and read basic vocabulary and phrases at length to students who were largely silent. However, it also found that the trainees intended to use a CLT approach not reported in previous studies. Even so, trainees struggled to balance the competing demands of home-cultural practices with the CLT practices advocated by their program and in their practicum classrooms. What the researcher did 
● As part of an ethnographic study on two cohorts of Chinese students in a TESOL program at a large university in the southern United States, the teacher-researcher supervised 10 of these students in their practicums and gathered data on their practicum work. For this study, he analyzed the emerging practices of four student teachers, who represented unique variations in their uptake of CLT. 
● Analysis examined trainee teaching practices that interfered with the facilitation of student communication; student teacher success in implementing CLT; and how trainees reconciled a CLT approach with familiar cultural practices. 
● Through qualitative, participant methods, the researcher proceeded to code data that could provide answers to these questions. These codes resembled either practices that are typical of classrooms with a communicative language teaching activity system or practices that are typically found in studies of English language teaching in China, and were then categorized accordingly in analysis facilitated by trainee reflections on their teaching intentions. What the researcher found 
● The researcher found 12 student teacher practices that interfered with the facilitation of student communication. 
● These practices were of two types: Practices that are also Common in China’s Classrooms and Practices showing Communicative Teaching Intent. 
● The student teachers had a strong tendency to reproduce cultural teaching practices from China, especially at the beginnings of their practicums. 
● But their lessons and recorded statements also showed that they possessed a strong intent to implement CLT practices. In all but one lesson, student teachers had identifiable communicative activities and the student teachers successfully implemented communicative activities in six lessons. 
● When attempting to implement communicative activity, the student teachers struggled the most with giving clear instructions and modeling the activity so that students could understand what to do. 
● However, lessons and post-lesson reflections also revealed that the student teachers struggled to balance the communicative teaching practice expected in their practicum classrooms with familiar practices from home. 
Things to consider
 
● This sample of trainees shows that cultural practices from China are strong and likely to be reproduced even in environments that discourage them. American and Western TESOL programs need to understand that while curricula may be conveying and advocating constructivist, communicative teaching practice, these messages alone do not offset cultural practices that oppose a communicative teaching approach. 
● To help TESOL trainees better understand and reconcile differences between home-cultural practices and CLT, Western TESOL and ELT programs need to engage Chinese students in discussing the effects of these practices. 