
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Research shows that when we listen to language, we are automatically making predictions about what's coming next in the sentence. Evidence also suggests that making errors when predicting could be one of the ways in which we acquire language (error-based learning). Therefore, those who study language learning are becoming increasingly interested in prediction and whether it could be a helpful mechanism to learn a second language. However, second language learners seem less capable of making predictions compared to native speakers, which has prompted a debate on whether they could rely on prediction as a learning mechanism. To investigate this question, we first need to have a clear picture of what prediction is and how it could help learning. To provide an overview of these topics, the researchers conducted a review of the existing literature on prediction and error-based learning in language. 
What the researchers did
 
● They looked at different definitions of prediction adopted by different subfields of linguistics and focused on prediction as predicting the upcoming content of a sentence, giving a summary of different theoretical approaches and of the mechanisms involved. 
● They reviewed the empirical evidence on prediction in both native and second language speakers. They looked at the factors which can make it more difficult to predict upcoming content, both for native and second language speakers. 
● They reviewed the theoretical proposals suggesting that prediction could be a language learning mechanism and the evidence supporting these proposals, which comes from computational models (computer simulations) and empirical studies on language processing. 
What the researchers found
 
● Prediction as "predicting what comes next in a sentence" involves different mechanisms of increasing complexity. At the most basic level, speakers are sensitive to how likely different words are to follow in a sentence. At the most complex level, speakers can actively anticipate which words or specific linguistic features (e.g., masculine / feminine marking) will occur. 
● Second language learners can formulate predictions in a way similar to native speakers, although not always to the same extent, especially with the more complex prediction mechanisms. In fact, the ability to predict can vary among both native speakers and second language speakers, as it is influenced by a number of factors: e.g., cognitive abilities, language proficiency and the type of task used to investigate prediction. 
● Computational models of language processing show that is theoretically possible to acquire linguistic categories simply by predicting the upcoming content of sentences and learning from error. These models can also replicate findings from empirical studies on language processing and language acquisition in babies, lending support to the idea that prediction may be involved language learning. 
● Additional evidence for a role of prediction in language learning comes from experimental studies on adaptation: Being exposed to a grammatical structure can make speakers more likely to use it or expect it in the future. The less frequent (and therefore, less expected) the grammatical structure is, the greater the adaptation effect. This is found in both native and second language speakers. However, it does not always occur for all structures; it may depend on how cognitively demanding it is, or how reliable the context is to formulate predictions. 
● In conclusion, there is still no clear-cut answer to the question of whether reduced prediction in second language speakers could prevent them from relying on prediction as learning mechanism. Prediction is a complex and varied mechanism, and more research is needed to investigate its potential role in language learning. 
Things to consider
 
● This review only focused on one meaning of prediction (predicting the upcoming content of a sentence as it unfolds). Other types of prediction may be relevant to language learning, too, such as one-shot declarative learning: The finding that new associations (e.g., a picture-word association) which violate expectations are better remembered than those which do not violate expectations. More research is needed to investigate how different types of prediction may support language learning. 