
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has shown that critical thinking and multiple intelligence can determine one's future success. Multiple intelligence refers to different ways individuals learn. For instance, some can perceive the visual world accurately (i.e., visual-spatial intelligence), whereas others can communicate through language more efficiently (i.e., linguistic-verbal intelligence). Also, critical thinking refers to individuals' ability to assess and evaluate claims and situations to make promising decisions. Considering differences among individuals, the question raised here is whether multiple intelligence types and critical thinking can contribute to speaking skills. Speaking is essential as it helps second language (L2) learners communicate their thoughts. However, it is a challenging skill because L2 learners should convey their ideas in the moment. This study intended to see if multiple intelligence and critical thinking are predictors of successful communication in an L2. In order to answer this question, the participants answered several questions. Analyzing the answers showed that intelligence did not influence speaking performance. However, the ability to think critically was related to speaking performance. 
What the researchers did
 
● One hundred and ten learners in a state university and a private language institute in Iran volunteered to participate in the study. 
● They first took a test that determined their level of English proficiency. 
● Based on their scores, 70 intermediate learners were chosen. The learners were both male and female students, with ages ranging from 18-35. Their L1 was Persian. 
● They filled out several questionnaires which measured their multiple intelligence and critical thinking. A number of imaginary scenarios were introduced to measure the different aspects of critical thinking (i.e., evaluation, analysis, inference, inductive reasoning, and deductive reasoning). For example, in one of these scenarios, the students were asked to choose the option that best indicated the implications behind a statement. The instruments used for multiple intelligence included questions aiming at illustrating their dominant abilities, such as music, kinesthetics, and logic. For instance, they were asked if they paid attention to musical rhythm or speech intonation. 
What the researchers found
 
● There was no relationship between the participants' multiple intelligence and their speaking skill. 
● Also, the English students who were critical thinkers were better able to make decisions logically, and they showed better performance in their speaking ability. 
Things to consider
 
● The present study provided evidence that critical thinking is related to speaking performance. This supports Vygotsky's (1962) notes on the interdependence of thought and speech and the highlighted theory that thinking motivates speaking and vice versa. 