
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Motivation factors can drive second language (L2) learning. L2 learners with higher motivation tend to be high-achieving. The question is how motivation are orientations converted into behaviors and higher achievement. This study examined whether and how interest in L2, as one measure of motivation, is related to L2 oral proficiency. It also explored how other variables (i.e., perceived importance of speaking, out-of-class contact with L2 resources) might influence this relationship. Key findings suggested that (1) L2 interest strongly drove L2 oral development. However, its effect was completely mediated by perceived importance of speaking; (2) Out-of-class L2 contact was related to L2 interest but had no measurable effect on L2 oral proficiency; (3) Noninteractive contact with traditional media and interactive contact with social media/email functioned differently. Interactive language practice based on digital tools could play a promising role in future L2 learning.  What the researcher did 
● The data were collected from 1922 students enrolled in Chinese (N = 219), French (N = 485), Spanish (N = 1100), and Russian (N = 120) classes at Michigan State University during their first and second year of language learning.  
● L2 oral proficiency was measured by ACTFL OPIc, a widely used L2 oral proficiency test. 
● Three independent variables (i.e., L2 interest, perceived importance of speaking, and out of-class L2 contact) were measured by a six-point Likert scale. 
● The researcher tested three hypothesized models to reveal structural relationships between these variables.  What the researcher found 
● The structural relationships between variables investigated could be explained by this model (the Figure below). 
● L2 interest is central to the model. L2 learners with high levels of interest tend to perceive speaking as an important task. With perceived importance of speaking as the mediator, L2 interest has a positive effect on L2 oral proficiency. 
● L2 interest also predicts the frequency of both interactive and noninteractive out-of-class L2 contact. 
● The effect of L2 interest was completely mediated by the perceived importance of speaking. 
● Out-of-class L2 contact, as a motivated behavior in the present study, has no effect on L2 oral proficiency. When there is no instruction, scaffolding, or deep levels of analysis, motivated behaviors do not necessarily lead to higher L2 oral proficiency. 
● Two types of Out-of-class L2 contact (i.e., interactive - L2 contact with social media/email - and noninteractive - L2 contact with traditional media) function differently. Digital tools make interaction between L2 learners easier and make contextualized language practice more accessible. They have advantages in engaging L2 learners and could play a promising role in future L2 learning. 
Things to consider
 
● The influence of L2 interest on L2 oral proficiency may be larger than traditionally assumed. To foreign language educators, it is necessary to think about how to foster and maintain students’ interest in the target language and culture. 
● Future systematic investigations of mediating links between motivation orientations and L2 learning outcomes would provide valuable pedagogical implications on how to turn motivation orientations into L2 learning gains and how to maximize motivational benefits. 