
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Students with special educational needs (SEN) are often included in mainstream classrooms. Are foreign language teachers ready to teach them? In this context, there is a need to measure their attitudes towards inclusive education to know what they think about it, if they feel ready to face such heterogeneous learning environment, and if educational institution and centers support or benefit this way of inclusion. For this reason, this article focused on the development and validation of a new instrument to measure these matters in two countries, Spain and Portugal, through three dimensions: training, conception of diversity, and support. Findings reveal that both Spanish and Portuguese pre-service English teachers (PSETs) feel disappointed about their training and the support available in schools in a similar way, although Portuguese students feel more optimistic about having SEN students in regular classrooms and do not feel curricula are such a barrier as Spanish students think. What the researcher did 
● Developed a tool to measure attitudes towards inclusive education. 
● Eleven experts in the field were invited to validate the tool. 
● Once data showed that the tool was reliable, it was sent to every faculty in Spain and Portugal offering teacher training at any level (preschool, primary and/or secondary education). 
● Participants had to meet two requirements: (1) to be last-year students specialized in English as Foreign Language (EFL) teaching in the following degrees: Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Preschool Education, BA in Primary Education, Master of Arts (MA) in EFL teaching in Secondary Education (in the case of pre-service Spanish teachers), or MA in EFL teaching in Primary and/or Secondary Education (in the case of pre-service Portuguese teachers), and (2) to have carried out at least one practicum. What the researcher found 
● Results show that the tool can be considered as a reliable instrument to measure PSETs attitudes towards inclusive education. 
● The final tool consisted of 17 items distributed across the aforementioned three dimensions: training, conception of diversity, and support. 
● The tool can be easily adapted to other content areas simply by changing the subject under study in 4 items. 
● Regarding the preliminary analysis of the survey results, data show that: o both Portuguese and Spanish PSET have similar attitudes towards their training. o feel uncertain about SEN students being able to learn English as a foreign language up to the same standards as non-SEN students. o agree when considering that: (a) having SEN students would increase their workload, (b) SEN students are usually accepted by their peers, (c) inclusion facilitates socially appropriate behavior among all students, (d) SEN students can develop their academic skills more rapidly in regular classrooms, and (e) having more opportunities to collaborate with other teachers in the classroom would enrich the teaching-learning processes. 
Things to consider
 
● Limitation: the instrument was only validated in the Spanish and Portuguese context and it may not be applicable in other contexts, or it may need to be adapted. 
● This scale offers an instrument that can be used to update and improve training programs at university level. 
● Extant literature suggests that well trained teachers are more willing to implement effective education practices, which are essential to provide students with equal learning opportunities in an inclusive and sustainable education system regardless of their educational need. 