
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The authors of this article have pointed out how discriminatory policies are creating hurdles in the path of the education of the Rohingya refugee children in Bangladesh. This study fills the gap in the current discourse on the education of Rohingya refugee children by focusing on the broad problems related to the policies and practices of education by the hosting government and international agencies. To conduct this study, the authors have discussed how different identities of Rohingya refugee children are responsible for creating unique forms of oppression and discrimination against them in the context of their education and also collected data through interviews and group discussions. From this study it was revealed that the language of instruction in classroom and poor teaching quality are some of the significant barriers to the education of these children. 
What the researchers did
 
● The authors have conducted both individual interviews and group discussions with six guardians and teachers of Rohingya refugee children, six government officials, and six NGO and INGO officials for this study. 
● The interview questions were translated in “Rohingya” language, which made them more understandable to the refugee people and they were able to answer them more comfortably. 
● The questions related to the 4 As: availability of education (e.g. adequate infrastructure and teachers), accessibility of education (a need for diversity), acceptability (addressing refugees’ educational needs), and adaptability (flexibility in the education system). 
What the researchers found
 
● The Rohingya refugee children’s multiple identities based on ethnicity, nationality, economic class, age, gender, and other similar factors are interrelated and these identities together cause their lack of access to education. 
● Many Rohingya refugee children wish to learn Bengali and access education in Bengali. But the hosting government has prohibited the use of Bengali in the informal education of these children because, it does not want them to integrate with the people in Bangladesh, rather it wants to repatriate them to Myanmar and that is why forcefully making them learn only Burmese and English. 
● The children cannot use their mother-language Rohingya in the classroom. The children are not being able to learn properly in Burmese as they did not spend enough time in Myanmar to have a strong grip in that country’s language. The wishes of the children and their guardians for the language of instruction in learning centers are being ignored. 
● The problems related to Rohingya refugee education in Bangladesh include; lack of learning materials, lack of skilled teachers, no fixed and structured curriculum for the children, lack of interest of international agencies to fund the education of these children, lack of coordination among the three ministries of Bangladesh etc. 
● The children do not get any certification for their studies, which makes them unequipped to seek a job in the future. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings of this study suggest that there exists systematic injustice in the learning centers of the refugee camps in Bangladesh and deprivation of language rights is the most significant injustice occurring there. 
● The study could not include interviews of politicians and policy-makers due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Therefore, there is further scope for a study that will include the viewpoints of, and data from, the policy makers as well. 