
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Bidialectal strategies in language education refers to forms of teaching that see standard and non-standard varieties of language as potential resources in the classroom. In Singapore, bidialectal strategies involving Standard English and Singlish, the vernacular, have never been officially endorsed by the state, despite scholars’ suggestions for implementation in schools the last 20 years. This study presents findings from a definitive attempt at implementing bidialectal pedagogy in Singapore in a mainstream secondary school. The study involved strategies for teaching Standard English and Singlish as two separate registers appropriate for specific contexts. Findings suggest that Singlish can be a useful pedagogical resource in the development of critical language awareness, and that prevalent attitudes surrounding the use of Singlish and Standard English by Singaporean students severely underestimate the proficiencies that they possess. 
What the researchers did
 
● The bidialectal programme designed for this study is based on three main orientations where: (i) Singlish and Standard English are seen as appropriate forms of language use for particular social situations, audiences, and purposes; (ii) Singlish is used as a resource to facilitate the learning of Standard English; (iii) Singlish’s position as marker of local identity is affirmed. 
● Lessons were conducted in a mainstream secondary school for one hour per week, over eight weeks. Students were taught to differentiate both registers via activities such as contrastive analysis and translation. 
● Participants comprised 2 classes of 13-year-old Secondary One students of average academic ability. 
● Classroom discussions and written tasks were examined to understand whether and to what extent students evaluated the appropriateness of using each register, as well as how they deployed these registers when tasked to produce a poster advertisement. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students demonstrated critical language awareness by navigating and challenging dominant language ideologies, and that Singlish can be a resource facilitating such instruction. 
● Students were able to deploy Standard English and Singlish pertinently when producing poster advertisements for specific products. 
● Both classroom discussions and written tasks showed that students are well aware of abstract concepts like purpose of communication and audience design, and were able to use both registers meaningfully to accomplish their communicative tasks. 
Things to consider
 
● The study has shown that public fears that Singlish use will necessarily impede the learning of Standard English is unfounded. 
● On the contrary, such bidialectal pedagogy has the potential to benefit students whose linguistic identities and practices have previously been ignored or penalised in the classroom. 
● This is but a small-scale qualitative study; a first empirical attempt at responding to prevalent attitudes that prevent Singlish from being accepted as a resource in the classroom. 
● A logical next step would be a larger scale study, testing the learning outcomes of an extended bidialectal programme, and involving teachers and parents among other stakeholders. 