
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Content and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) is a bilingual teaching approach where some or all school subjects are taught in a language other than the official language of schooling – usually in English. CLIL programmes have been criticized for being elitist because in many countries they are only offered in expensive private schools and because research have shown that students in CLIL programmes are generally more motivated, have a higher socio-economic status (SES), and have parents who are more involved in their children’s schoolwork than non-CLIL students. To better understand the role CLIL can play in an educational system, however, it is important to know more about why individual students choose a CLIL education. This study examines students’ motivation for applying to CLIL programmes at two Norwegian lower secondary schools, located in school districts with high and low SES, respectively. The findings show that CLIL programmes were attractive at both schools, but for different reasons. For students at the high SES school, the programme was a good fit for their internationally oriented lifestyles. Students at the low SES school, however, considered the CLIL programme as a first step on a path towards a better future. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers collected 85 motivation letters written by applicants to two CLIL programmes in lower secondary schools in Norway. 
● The researchers also conducted focus group interviews with 102 students during their first, second or third year in these programmes. 
● The programmes were offered at schools in school districts with high and low SES, respectively. 
● The researchers analyzed the motivation letters and the interviews in order to identify the students’ reasons for applying to the programmes. 
● The results from the two schools were compared. 
● The results from the motivation letters and the focus group interviews were compared. 
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers identified 20 different reasons for applying to a CLIL programme. 
● In their motivation letters, the individual students mentioned between one and eight reasons. 
● The reasons for applying were related to a) the students’ expectations of the CLIL programme, b) their plans for the future, c) their life outside school, d) their background, and e) influence from friends, family or teachers. 
● Although many reasons overlapped between the two schools, there were also differences. 
● The students at the high SES school highlighted reasons relating to their background and life outside school, describing the CLIL programme as a good fit for their lifestyle with extensive travel and international contacts. 
● The students at the low SES school highlighted reasons relating to their future plans, hoping a CLIL programme would open doors and give them better career opportunities. 
● In the focus group interviews, the students primarily mentioned reasons relating to expectation of the CLIL programme, while the motivation letters to a greater extent included reasons relating to the students’ background or future plans. 
Things to consider
 
● CLIL programmes are attractive to students of different socio-economic backgrounds, although for different reasons. 
● Elitism should not be perceived as an inherent quality of CLIL but as a possible consequence, if the benefits of a CLIL education are only offered to students with a high SES background. 
● If offered in low SES school districts, CLIL programmes may be perceived by students as key to social mobility. 