
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many researchers encourage large amounts of independent reading for the development of second language (L2) knowledge and reading skills. Based on a small number of studies with intermediate and advanced L2 English learners reading short, mostly academic texts, it is recommended that learners know 95–98% of the word tokens. The focus of this study was on beginning-level L2 Spanish learners’ reading of longer (~1600 words) narrative texts. Comprehension of directly stated (literal) content was compared to comprehension of content not directly stated (inferential). The study found that there was a stronger relationship between known words and literal comprehension and, by knowing almost all the words, learners would be expected to recall most of the main events. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 50 university students in second semester L2 Spanish courses. All were native English speakers. 
● Learners were given a choice between one of two interesting texts written for beginners. 
● Before reading, learners indicated their knowledge (‘yes’ or ‘no’) of all the words in the texts. The lists also contained made-up words, and anyone checking knowledge of two or more of these words was excluded. 
● After reading, learners rated their enjoyment of the stories and indicated how much they thought they had understood. 
● Without access to the texts, learners answered open-ended questions, followed by a multiple-choice test. On both tests, and for each of the 10 main events, there was one literal and one inferential question. 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners generally enjoyed the stories and were fairly accurate at predicting their own comprehension. 
● In general, the more words known, the more content was comprehended. However, there was considerable variation such that learners with similar word knowledge did not all achieve the same degree of comprehension. 
● Literal and inferential scores were similar, but words known was more related to literal than inferential comprehension. 
● A learner knowing 98% of the words would be predicted to correctly answer open-ended literal questions about eight of the ten main events. 
Things to consider
 
● The 98% coverage recommendation was upheld with beginning-level learners reading longer texts. This highlights the need for level-appropriate texts. Given the variation in comprehension, text selection may initially be guided by vocabulary concerns, but can be adjusted based on a readers’ sense of comprehension. 
● Vocabulary knowledge was self-reported, and the inferences investigated were largely about character feelings and expectations. Future studies can explore additional ways of testing vocabulary and distinguish among different types of inferences. Material available from: https://www.iris-database.org/ 