
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Debates around preferred linguistic backgrounds of teachers of English across the globe has led to an international movement within teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL), known as the Non-Native English Speaking (NNES) teacher movement. Despite significant changes associated with the movement, limited attention has been given to teachers who exhibit multiple levels of linguistic oppression, i.e., non-native English speakers and members of linguistic and cultural minorities within schooling contexts. Drawing upon theories of identity construction, we examined the personal and professional challenges for Roberto (pseudonym), an Indigenous Ecuadoran NNES teacher who taught within a dominant Spanish-speaking context. 
What the researchers did
 
● The case study of Roberto’s experiences was part of a larger multi-case research project conducted by Dr. Cappeart (Author 1) involving five Ecuadoran EFL teachers who participated in a professional development program in the United States. We focused on Roberto’s experiences for his unique insights as an Indigenous EFL teacher within a linguistically dominant secondary school context 
● Over a two-week time period, Dr. Cappeart shadowed Roberto for over 100 hours and interviewed him formally and informally on multiple occasions. 
● To record classroom observations, Dr. Cappeart employed a two-column chart with which she noted student behavior, classroom interactions and instruction. On the left-hand side, she recorded specific classroom happenings: who was involved, what they did, when it happened, where it took place, how different elements were related, and why it seemed to occur. On the right-hand side, she wrote memos to record her thoughts, reactions, as well as questions. 
What the researchers found
 
● Roberto experienced multiple identities-- as Kichwa, as Ecuadoran, as a secondary EFL teacher--which all intersected, but it was his Indigenous identity that he critically bore on his body. Visibly identifiable as an Indigenous person, Roberto carried in his body cultural stories and oppression that had been perpetuated against local Kichwa communities. His Kichwa-ness thus impacted how he saw and understood himself, his interpretations of others’ perceptions of him, and his interactions with students, peers, and administration alike. 
● The US-based professional development program advocated for instructional approaches based upon asset-oriented funds of knowledge, collaborative and communicative-based approaches to language instruction. After incorporating many of the practices modeled into his instruction, Roberto recognized and appreciated the increased depth of understanding by many of the students. In doing so, he also changed how he saw himself, particularly as a more legitimate speaker and teacher of English. 
Things to consider
 
● Despite the recognition of plurality within identities and plurality within languages, e.g., World Englishes, too often, identity and language remain viewed through singular, rather than intersectional, lenses. Within the NNES movement, this singularity has been framed around the native versus non-native English speaker dichotomy. 
● Within the United States, faculty recognized Roberto’s Indigeneity but without any attention to the ways Indigenous individuals “think differently,” the historic marginalization of Indigenous communities in Ecuador, and the influence of that history on his perceptions and interactions with his peers. 
● It is vital that teachers and researchers more fully recognize intersectional facets of oppression, including multiple and complex linguistic identities for teachers and students. 