
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Directed motivational currents (DMCs) are intense and prolonged periods of motivation to achieve a highly desired outcome in the study of a second/foreign language (L2). While interest in this phenomenon has surged in recent years, evidence of its potential side-effects remains inadequate. This is an area worth examining to illustrate the negative aspects that may hinder the positive effects of DMCs in the classroom. The findings can also highlight the potential risks of deliberately generating DMCs in learners. This qualitative study employed interpretative phenomenological analysis (an approach exploring an individual's personal perception or account of an event or state) to probe the negative-side-effects of DMCs, their originating sources, and how such effects influence engagement with goal-directed behaviors. Findings suggest that the negative side-effects of DMCs can take the form of a sense of inadequacy, mental distress, and feelings of sorrow. The emergent side-effects were driven by excessive dedication towards goal achievement and occasional changes in behavioural routines, as well as by the lack of positive feedback on the progress made and engagement with irrelevant subgoals. 
What the researchers did
 
● We used an exploratory qualitative research design involving data collection through in-depth, semi-structured interviews with the focal participants. 
● The participants were 5 trainee EFL teachers who reported having side-effects from their DMCs. 
● The participants were interviewed twice to facilitate understanding and generate more detailed descriptions. 
● The interview transcripts were examined using interpretative phenomenological analysis. 
What the researchers found
 
● The findings indicated that the negative side-effects of DMCs can take a variety of forms which we classified into three major categories: 1) a sense of inadequacy, 2) mental distress, and 3) feelings of sorrow. 
● Excessive dedication towards goal-achievement along with occasional changes in normal behavioural routines, the lack of affirmative feedback on the progress made towards goal-achievement, and engagement with irrelevant tasks were identified as the primary causes of the emergent side-effects (e.g. practicing reading when a student’s goal is to improve speaking). 
● The emergent side-effects were found to exert only limited impact on the robustness and longevity of DMCs. 
Things to consider
 
● Learners having DMCs are likely to suffer from unfavorable conditions including physical and mental pressure, which can be detrimental – albeit only temporarily – to their motivational development and wellbeing. 
● This implies that DMCs can often involve highly mixed emotions that can alter mental states in multiple ways. 
● The findings suggest that the portrayal of DMCs as a universally positive experience needs to be refined. 
● The insights from the study further our understanding of the affective properties of DMCs and add depth to the current conception of this motivational phenomenon. 
● Practitioners should be mindful of the possible pitfalls and unintended consequences of the DMC interventions, and look for ways to mitigate any undesired effects. 
● Some participants were able to reduce damages from the side-effects via intentional use of certain self-regulatory strategies. This implies that practitioners should facilitate self-regulation as a potential positive influence for long-term L2 learning. 
● Overall, this study reiterates the need for an equal scrutiny of the positive and negative aspects of DMCs to better capture the affective properties of long-term motivational behaviors in language learning contexts and beyond. 
● Given the relatively small sample recruited, we warn against generalizing findings to wider contexts. Future studies approaching the issue through the lens of larger samples are needed to provide more rigorous insights into the side-effects of DMCs. 