
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The lack of sensitivity among U.S. teachers in relation to diverse languages and cultures has been the focus of research for decades. Working within a professional development (PD) module, we assessed the critical awareness and cultural sensitivity of in-service teachers via a critical theoretical approach with the aim of helping them develop practical strategies to support English learners (ELs). Beyond EL experts, PD courses on critical theoretical perspectives on ELs are essential for all teachers with a direct or indirect relationship with ELs. Sixty-eight participants in a midwestern community participated in the PD modular course, where they were exposed to various critical theories. Data for this study constitute discussion responses and teacher critical theoretical reflections on ELs. Thus, we stress the importance of engaging pre-and in-service teachers and principals with critical theoretical EL education as part of their professional development and training. 
What the researchers did
 
● We developed a semester-based PD course (January-May 2021) on critical awareness and understanding of English learners for local teachers and educators. 
● 68 participants actively participated in this study, including pre-service teachers, in-service teachers, and school superintendents. 
● The 68 participants completed weekly tasks. In week one, participants were assigned texts and articles to read. In week two, participants responded to four discussion prompts in asynchronous peer discussions. In week three, participants completed a class activity. In week four, participants interacted with an EL guest speaker via Zoom about EL education and wrote reflection papers. 
● The data for this study include 67 discussion prompts and 68 reflection papers. We analyzed the data by identifying themes and common topics. Each of us reviewed about 11-12 datasets, coded, and derived themes. This allowed us to develop patterns that helped us extract meaning from the data. 
What the researchers found
 
● The findings of this study show that when teachers and educators actively engage in critical awareness and cultural sensitivity discourses about EL education, it impacts and transforms their perceptions about their respective roles in providing effective EL education. 
● We emphasize the importance of engaging pre-and in-service teachers and principals with critical theoretical EL education as part of their professional development and training. 
● PD courses on critical theoretical perspectives on ELs are essential for all teachers who have a direct or indirect relationship in EL education. 
● We postulate that when educators engage holistically with critical theoretical perspectives on race, immigration, gender, and sexual orientation, it augments their understanding of the broader issues that undergird a successful EL education. 
Things to consider
 
● When teacher education programs foster theory-based practices, such as culturally relevant, culturally responsive, and culturally sustaining teaching, they can nurture and develop pre-service teachers (PSTs) cultural competency and critical cultural awareness. 
● Teachers with PD focused on diversity, equity, and social justice are better positioned to develop pedagogical practices that support culturally and linguistically diverse students. 
● Exposing PSTs to critical theories during teacher preparation and providing them with the space for classroom practice is vital to their teacher preparation and professional development. 