
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Educational policies in France and other countries emphasise the importance of mastering oral language before learning to read and write, particularly the syntactic organisation of speech. However, this mastery is unequal among children. To help children with difficulties, language-training programs have been developed, based on research into language acquisition. The results show that they have a beneficial effect on children's language development, although it is not clear whether this is due to the actions of the teacher or to other variables. This study shows that children's syntactic progress depends on the occurrence of complex syntactic constructions in adult language. It highlights the importance of training educators to be more reflexive about their language postures when working with children. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 26 educators from different professions (teachers, animators and employees) and 131 children living in priority education areas in France. 
● The educators all received initial training from a researcher on the role of interaction in language acquisition. 
● Each child was recorded interacting with an educator twice during the year. A total of 262 recordings were transcribed and analyzed by the researchers. 
● The interactions between educators and children were based on picture books designed for language training. The educators first read the story to the child and then help them to tell it, using the pictures and proposing adapted language forms aimed at syntactic progression. 
● The measures focus on the pragmatic properties of the educators' speech (offers, identical repetitions, recasts) and on the linguistic aspects of the adults' and children's utterances (types of constructions – simple and complex). 
What the researchers found
 On the syntactic aspects of children and adults 
● Educators change between the first (T1) and the last recording (T2): they produce more offers and repetitions at T1 than at T2; they significantly increase the proportion of complex syntactic constructions between T1 and T2. 
● For children, the production of complex syntactic constructions increases significantly between T1 and T2. On the correlations between T1 and T2 
● Children who interact with educators who produce the most complex syntactic constructions are those who have progressed the most syntactically over the year. 
● For the educators, changing their language between T1 and T2 is not related to professional status. 
● The results do not show a correlation between the interaction settings considered efficient for language development (offers, repetitions, reformulations) and the child's progress in terms of syntax. 
Things to consider
 
● A program focusing on emergence and syntactic development is effective in helping children with difficulties. 
● The follow-up to this study will seek to determine the parameters of the training that would enable the development of educators' reflexivity and the characteristics of the necessary changes in their professional language postures. 