
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Genres are often taught in the second language (L2) writing classroom to help learners produce texts that are appropriate to social settings. However, research shows that teachers often inappropriately present genres as rigid formats for memorisation, which limits learners’ reflective thinking and flexible use of genre. Therefore, in this study, we drew on Gal’perin’s concept-based instruction (CBI) as a new alternative to teach the Systemic Functional Linguistic (SFL) concepts about genre, which illuminate the underpinning principles of how context shapes text features. The genre-based CBI we designed involves four stages: explanation of the concepts, materialization of the concepts via didactic diagrams, learner verbalisation of the concepts and use of the concepts to explain performance, and automatization via continuous practice. Learners’ understanding of genre and their writing performance were measured. We compared the results with a different group where the SFL concepts about genre were not taught. We further compared the results with another group where the genre-based CBI was only partially applied without the use of verbalisation. Results showed that learners benefited the most when the full model of CBI was used. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study was conducted in an elementary writing course over a semester of 16 weeks at a major university in China. The participants were 88 first-year undergraduate students who were L1 speakers of Chinese with limited experience in English writing. 
● The participants were assigned to three groups: the Full CBI (F-CBI) group, the Partial CBI (P-CBI) group, and the Control group. 
● Before the course, all the students completed a definition task and two writing tasks (a narrative and an argumentative tasks), which measured their understanding of genre and their writing performance respectively. 
● During the course, one instructor taught the three groups differently. In the F-CBI group, all four stages of CBI were applied to teach the concepts, and in particular, students worked in dyads for verbalisation activities. In the P-CBI group, the same concepts were taught, but the stage of verbalization was omitted and students completed all the activities individually. In the third group, students followed the original course syllabus which focused on sentence structures without any instruction on genre. 
● At the end of the course, three groups completed the definition task and the two writing tasks again. 
What the researchers found
 
● The F-CBI group had higher definition scores, narrative writing scores, and argumentative writing scores than the Control group. 
● The F-CBI group also exhibited more improvements than the P-CBI group in definition scores and argumentative writing scores, but not in narrative writing scores. This may be due to the fact that the narrative genre was taught in the first half of the semester when students were still adapting to the verbalization activities. 
● When learners’ definition scores increased, their writing scores, especially on the argumentative task, improved accordingly. 
Things to consider
 
● The results suggest the benefit of using CBI to enhance learners’ understanding of genre and their writing development. 
● Teachers should address genre at a conceptual level by framing discrete genre features based on coherent concepts that can serve as thinking tools to guide learners’ writing performance. 
● Teachers should engage learners to extensively talk through their understanding and use of concepts in performance, which may further deepen their genre knowledge and improve their writing abilities. 