
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Verbal irony is where people say one thing but mean something else (like sarcasm). For instance, a person may write, “It is raining again…. WONDERFUL! ☹” They wrote “wonderful,” but they meant “terrible.” Verbal irony is common in English, especially on social media. However, recognizing it can be difficult, especially for language learners. Not recognizing it can lead to confusion and other problems. The study involved two experiments. The first investigated the ability of Japanese learners of English to recognize verbal irony in social media comments. The second experiment examined the effect of instruction. The first experiment found that the participants had some difficulty. The second experiment suggested that instruction can help, especially when there are visual cues (emojis and CAPS). 
What the researchers did
 
● A test was created with 30 normal (not ironic) and 15 ironic social media comments. 
● Participants needed to judge if each comment was ironic or not. 
● 148 adult Japanese language learners of English were involved in experiment 1. 
● In a second study, some of the learners (experimental group) had a lesson about verbal irony: o considering what the writer previously wrote to see if it matches. o understanding visual cues (emojis, emojis, and CAPS). 
● The improvements were compared with students who did not have the irony lesson (control group). 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners did have some difficulty. They were wrong 1 in 4 comments. 
● The most difficult ironic comments were where one person said one thing “It’s terrible that ….” and then later said an opposite thing “It is great….” 
● The instruction helped learners recognize irony for the comments with visual cues. 
Things to consider
● Irony can be difficult for Japanese, but more research is needed to see if other groups also have trouble. 
● Instruction helps. 
● If the lesson is too short, it may not help much. 
● The students liked the lesson. 