
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In response to the high demand for teachers able to effectively teach emergent bilinguals in U.S. schools, Hispanic-serving institutions have been recruiting more Latinx teacher candidates. However, rather than assuming that their ethnicity renders them effective educators, teacher preparation programs should also assist recruited Latinx teacher candidates in learning to engage with cultural and linguistic diversity in ways that challenge institutionalized inequity and marginalization. Helping Latinx teacher candidates reflect upon the ways they experience their ethnicity and language in relation to one another is important because they often unconsciously hold assumptions about language and ethnicity that they learned via socialization across the home, the community, and the school. For instance, Latinx individuals are frequently bombarded with messages that Latin American Spanish is ‘proper’ whereas U.S. Spanish is broken, that real Latinxs speak ‘proper’ Spanish, and that ‘standard’ English is the language of the school. In this study, we examined Latinx teacher candidates’ (N=27) reflection assignments in which they described their experienced with raciolinguistic policing or the experience of having interlocutors draw unwanted, negative attention to their language practices, often in connection to their ethnicity. The Latinx teacher candidates who participated in this study were completing an English as a Second Language (ESL) methods course at a Hispanic-serving university in Southwest Texas. 
What the researchers did
 
● We assigned Latinx teacher candidates to describe (both visually and in narrative form) and reflect upon (a) their language practices across communities (language portraits), and (b) their experiences with assumptions about the linguistic resources and language practices of Latinx individuals (language ideology tree). 
● We analyzed their assignments, focusing on narrative and visual instances (e.g., use of color and shape) in which they made direct mention of their language practices in connection to their ethnicity. 
● Our aim was to understand the complex ways their experiences with raciolinguistic policing shapes how they experience their language practices in connection to their ethnicity. 
What the researchers found
 
● Experiences with raciolinguistic policing have caused many Latinx teacher candidates to experience conflict and tension around how to define/describe themselves linguistically and ethnically. For example, they define themselves as monolingual even though they have functional proficiency in their heritage language. They also grapple with notions of looking Latinx versus being Latinx in connection to deficit views of their proficiency in Spanish. 
● They struggle with deficit attributed to both Spanish-speaking and non-Spanish-speaking Latinxs who do not neatly fit existing identity categories (e.g., they ‘look Mexican’ but do not speak Spanish or they speak U.S. Spanish). 
● Regardless of their efforts to maintain/connect to their heritage language/culture, Latinx teacher candidates are perceived as linguistically deficient and ethnically inauthentic. 
● Latinx TCs agentively respond to raciolinguistic policing by (a) choosing to distance from or get close to Spanish and/or speakers of Latin American Spanish, (b) foregrounding alternative identities (e.g., Mexicans who do and do not speak Spanish), and (c) envisioning classroom spaces where multiple languages are welcome and nurtured.  
Things to consider
 
● In general, teacher educators should integrate classroom activities that prompt reflection on teacher candidates’ linguistic repertoires, language histories, and experiences with raciolinguistic policing. 
● Specifically, teacher educators should intentionally work with Latinx TCs to re-signify stigmatized language practices such as Tex-Mex and Spanglish, by leveraging the ways Latinx TCs appropriate these as creative and critical practices that demonstrate their community’s resources for making sense of the world. 
● Teacher educators can intentionally leverage the alternative identities that Latinx TCs agentively create, such as “Mexicans who do speak Spanish,” which come to bear in defining themselves in relation to existing identity categories (upbringing, cultural heritage, etc.).  