
What this research was about and why it is important 
 
● This case study explored two Japanese university English majors’ second language identity formation in becoming confident English users. 
● By talking to the students, the researchers discovered deep held beliefs regarding language, identity, experience 
● with living abroad, and native-like accents that the students held on to strongly. It was also discovered that these beliefs could be challenged through experiences in the language classroom and with other language learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● Data were collected mainly from an end-of-the year online interview, supplemented with other sources including questionnaires, writing samples, and reflection papers during one academic year. 
● The researchers used the tactics of intersubjectivity to look at how people describe each other to analyze the interview data in terms of how people see each other as part of a group or separate from the group (adequation vs. distinction). 
What the researchers found
 The analysis revealed how Japanese students can easily adopt public mainstream discourse in which returnee students (those with experience living abroad) are glorified compared to those educated in Japan. In particular, oral performance was symbolic of native-like competence. The two students displayed such beliefs and values at the beginning of the year but then their identity changed, gaining more confidence and improving their English skills later in the year. Their transformation was made possible by: 
● exposure to returnee students; 
● exposure to another non-native English speaker from a different country; 
● creation of a harmonious class atmosphere; 
● demanding course content. The study also showed how language beliefs that look down upon language learners’ linguistic varieties can be challenged in an EFL classroom. 
Things to consider
 
● Even after realizing that their perception of oral ability is equivalent to overall language ability, students struggled to let go of this belief, but language teachers can intervene to disrupt this. 
● Further research should be done on how in-class practices can affect the ways students think about themselves as English learners and users. 