
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Questions about the role of attention and how attending to both form and meaning can affect comprehension have long been studied in second language (L2) research. VanPatten (1990), for instance, was one of the first studies to show how simultaneous processing of L2 form and meaning was difficult for L2 learners and affected their comprehension. This was particularly true for low-level learners, who VanPatten claimed might attend to form only when meaning is understood (Primacy of Meaning principle, according to which L2 learners first process language for meaning before they process it for form). Such a potential clash between attention to form- and meaning-related aspects of language has been explored in many follow-up replication studies; some of them confirmed VanPatten’s results, while others found that attending to different L2 forms did not necessarily interfere with levels of comprehension. However, much of this previous research has had only limited focus on the effects of L2 proficiency and language of assessment as important and potentially influential factors. To address this gap, the current study investigated L2 Spanish comprehension by L1-Polish learners as they simultaneously paid attention to a Spanish text and specific lexical and grammatical forms, but with their Spanish proficiency controlled for statistically, and with their performance tested via three different languages. The results showed that both L2 proficiency and language of assessment had an effect on learners’ performance: Spanish comprehension was lower when learners attended to one grammatical form in particular, but this effect was only found on the test conducted in English or Spanish, and not in Polish. These findings made important methodological and theoretical contributions and showed that L2 studies into learners’ attention to form and meaning should consider their proficiency in the target language and the language in which comprehension is measured as two key factors that affect results. 
What the researchers did
 
● To examine L2 learners’ simultaneous attention to L2 form and meaning during comprehension, the authors employed the same methods as Morgan-Short et al. (2018). 
● Using the same design across three trials of data collection, 136 L1-Polish learners of L2 Spanish were recruited. They were asked to listen to an L2-Spanish text and at the same time pay attention to three different forms: word sol, article la and morpheme -n. 
● Following this, learners’ comprehension of L2 Spanish was tested. Importantly, in order to examine the role of the language of assessment, across the three trials the comprehension tested was conducted in: Polish (learners’ mother tongue), Spanish (their main target language) and English (an additional foreign language).  
What the researchers found
 
● L2 Spanish proficiency was found to affect learners’ results 
● Their performance was also affected by the language of assessment 
● Comprehension scores were lower in the –n condition, but only when learners were tested in English or Spanish 
Things to consider
 
● The study adds evidence that simultaneous processing of L2 form and meaning is a complex process and L2 learners’ attention to specific forms may affect their levels of understanding of meaning 
● Studies that examine such questions need to consider what designs they use and how specific methodological choices affect the results (e.g. which language is used to assess the performance of L2 learners) 
● Materials and language tests that are used in replication studies should be extensively piloted to standardize research designs and enable their use across countries and diverse contexts 
● This is particularly important for future studies aiming to collect data from different learning settings and learners who speak several languages (multilingual speakers) and represent different levels of proficiency 
● More replication studies based on the same design are encouraged, extending the existing findings and shedding more light on the role of attention in L2 learning and use across different conditions and contexts Material, data, open access article: Registered materials available from  https://osf.io/uybak/; open access paper available from https://doi.org/10.1017/S0272263122000171 