
What this research was about and why it is important 
 People regularly use language to “negotiate their identity” (create, express belonging to, communicate within, and identify with different social groups). In doing so, they gain access to more educational and economic opportunities. For this reason, language scholars have encouraged minority language learners to express their identities in ways to help them gain more opportunities to practice their second language and succeed in mainstream society. However, racial minorities encounter various risks when negotiating their identities due to systemic racism and linguistic discrimination. In this paper, we focus on multiracial and multiethnic individuals (MHIs: mixed-heritage individuals), who are regularly questioned or denied their ethnic and racial identities in everyday conversation due to their racially ambiguous appearance. 
What the researchers did
 
● Designed an open-ended survey with questions asking about MHI’s sense of identity and belonging in relation to racial appearance, societal positioning, and language practices. 
● Collected data from 293 participants who identified as multiracial or multiethnic. Most (90%) resided in the U.S. and approximately 50% reported speaking at least one additional language besides English. 
● Used thematic analysis to examine (1) the types of strategies MHIs describe using to negotiate their ethnoracial identities and (2) risks associated with each strategy. 
● Checked the reliability and validity of thematic analysis by comparing rater responses (inter-rater reliability). 
● Investigated trustworthiness of our interpretations of the data by asking 10 participants for feedback. 
What the researchers found
 
● MHIs described numerous strategies to express their ethnic identities, including explanations and “proving” their ethnic identities using cultural or linguistic knowledge. 
● When explaining their ethnic backgrounds, many MHIs reported anxiety or frustration due to fears of identity denial and objectification. 
● When MHIs used cultural knowledge (e.g., talk about cultural traditions, foods, etc.) to “prove” their ethnic identities, they often felt like “racial imposters”—feeling inauthentic, insecure, or feeling pressured to reproduce cultural stereotypes. 
● MHIs also used different languages, accents, slang or linguistic behaviors to demonstrate belonging to their ethnic heritage, but many feared the need to speak “native-like” in their heritage languages. Some also feared being “linguistically othered” or being seen as uneducated when speaking “nonstandard” English. 
● Some MHIs reported that they resist racial identity labels or try to raise awareness about the problems inherent in racial identity questions/comments. However, because these strategies require emotional energy and do not guarantee success, MHIs also choose to avoid, give into, or escape situations where they were pressured to identify their race. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings demonstrated how MHIs are often forced to assess risk when trying to express or claim a racial identity, including the intentions of their speaking partners, social environment, and personal safety. 
● Systemic racism and linguistic discrimination often deny racial minorities such as MHIs the freedom to claim certain identities, gain group membership, and access to educational and economic resources. 
● Results suggest that racial minorities often do not have the power to change the way they are seen by others, including what racial labels and stereotypes are imposed on them. For this reason, scholars and educators must work to better understand how societal structures, beliefs, and everyday language continue to marginalize them. 