
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Words are the building blocks of texts. For good reading comprehension, second language (L2) learners need to know the meaning of a large number of words. Yet, this knowledge, often known as vocabulary breadth (or size), is insufficient. Written English is replete with affixed words where suffixes such as -ness and -ive are added to a word to modify its meaning (and often its grammatical status as well). This means that learners also need to have good affix or word part knowledge for recognizing those words during text reading. In addition, readers need to be able to access these types of knowledge efficiently (at speed). This study measured four distinct aspects of lexical competence in university Arabic-speaking learners of English as a foreign language in Saudi Arabia and tested the relative importance of these aspects of lexical competence for L2 reading comprehension. Vocabulary breadth had the strongest association with reading comprehension, followed by affix knowledge and then the speed-related lexical skills. Understanding the relative importance of different aspects of lexical competence is essential to appropriate instructional emphasis in L2 reading classrooms. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were tested (in a group setting) on their vocabulary breadth, affix knowledge, and reading comprehension. 
● Participants were also tested (on an individual basis) on their speed of recognizing whole words and on their speed of segmenting words into meaningful parts or combining parts to make a word. 
● The reading comprehension test involved answering a total of 21 multiple choice questions about four short passages. 
● Statistical relations were calculated for the associations of the four distinct aspects of lexical competence with reading comprehension, and the strength of the associations was compared. 
What the researchers found
 
● Vocabulary breadth was the most important of the four aspects of lexical competence in explaining the reading comprehension scores. 
● Affix knowledge was additionally important for accounting for reading comprehension scores. 
● Knowledge of words (vocabulary breath) and of affixes played a stronger role than did the two speed measures. 
● The speed of segmenting words and speed of combining word parts was also found to explain reading comprehension scores, though only to a relatively small extent. 
● The speed of word recognition was not found to play a notable role in comprehension scores. 
Things to consider
 
● Diverse aspects of lexical competence can have distinct roles during text reading. 
● Knowing the meaning of a large number of words is important for reading comprehension, but knowledge of word parts such as affixes is also important. 
● It may help for L2 vocabulary instruction to go beyond simple meaning definitions, though the current study did not test this. 
● Further research should check whether the speed measures used in the current study reliably captured individual differences in learners’ access to words. 