
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Individuals learn a second language for many reasons, but regardless of their motivation for learning, they share a common goal of communicating effectively in the second language. To communicate effectively, second language users need to speak in a way that is comprehensible, or easy to understand. Comprehensibility (ease of understanding) is often aligned with intelligibility (actual understanding), but the two are not the same; speech that is understood is not always easy to understand. Grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation are important for comprehensibility, but in most research, comprehensibility has been evaluated by a listener who did not interact with the speaker. That is, in a typical study, the speaker is recorded, and a short sample is presented to a listener for evaluation. Yet, communication is nearly always a two-way street that involves listeners and speakers interacting with and adapting to one another. In this study, we compared three sets of comprehensibility ratings: the ratings the speakers assigned to themselves, the ratings they were assigned by their interactive partner, and ratings provided by a listener who did not interact with the speaker. We collected ratings over three interactive tasks. Throughout the interaction, the speaker and partner ratings were high and closely aligned, but they were different from the external listeners’ ratings, which were consistently lower. 
What the researchers did
 
● Speakers were 40 non-native speakers of English who were paired up with one another. The two interlocutors did not speak the same first language. 
● Speaker pairs completed three activities: a warm-up activity where they found three things they had in common, a picture completion activity where they created a story from seven scrambled images, and a problem-solving activity where they discussed solutions to problems experienced by international students. 
● Over the course of the 17-minute interaction, they provided seven self and partner comprehensibility ratings. 
● External raters were 20 non-native English speakers with advanced English proficiency who were completing or had completed a degree in linguistics or a related discipline. 
● Raters listened to the complete audio file and evaluated both speakers seven times, in line with what each speaker did. 
What the researchers found
 
● Comprehensibility ratings were high overall; self and partner ratings were in the 80-90 point range and external listener ratings in the 70-80 point range on the 100-point scale. 
● Speakers’ self-ratings were closely aligned with the ratings they were assigned by their partner. 
● Speakers’ self-ratings and the partner ratings were higher than the ratings provided by the external listeners. 
Things to consider
 
● External raters had to invest more effort to understand the speakers than the speakers involved in the interaction did. 
● This finding may arise out of the fact that speakers and listeners tend to adapt to one another in terms of both the way they speak and their non-verbal behaviors, so their ratings might converge. 
● At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the speakers evaluated themselves and their partners live, whereas the external raters used an audio recording and did not have access to visual cues.  
● The external raters also had a higher level of linguistic expertise than the speakers, which could also account for the lower ratings they provided compared to the more lenient, or generous, speaker ratings. 
● From a teaching perspective, teachers should consider the goal of the assessment when selecting an assessment type (internal vs. external ratings) and should include a variety of tasks to assess comprehensibility in a range of speaking scenarios. 