
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research on learner emotions has expanded considerably in the past 10 years. Whereas foreign language anxiety used to be the only emotional variable to be considered before 2014, researchers have now adopted a more holistic view inspired by Positive Psychology. Foreign language anxiety has thus been complemented by foreign language enjoyment which was shown to be an independent dimension rather than a mirror image of anxiety. In other words, while high anxiety is typically linked to lower enjoyment, it is perfectly possible for learners to experience both high anxiety and high enjoyment when doing a difficult task in public for example. It is equally possible to experience no anxiety and no enjoyment, which reflects disengagement. More recently foreign language boredom has been added to the picture. This research matters because how well learners progress does not just depend on their aptitude but also on their emotions. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers investigated the link between foreign language anxiety, enjoyment and boredom among 332 foreign language learners from all over the world. 
● They also looked how the three foreign language emotions were shaped by learners attitude toward the foreign language, by teachers’ frequency of use of the foreign language in class and by teachers’ unpredictability. Finally, they calculated how all these variables jointly affected learners’ foreign language achievement using an advanced statistical technique, namely structural equation modeling. 
What the researchers found
 
● The authors found that learners who are anxious are typically also bored and do not enjoy themselves much in class. Learners who had teachers who used the foreign language frequently in class enjoyed themselves more. Teachers who did not stick to routines also had learners who enjoyed themselves more and who were less bored. Moreover, these learners had a more positive attitude towards the foreign language and obtained better marks. Highly anxious learners obtained lower marks. 
Things to consider
 
● Foreign learner emotions such as anxiety, enjoyment and boredom are linked to each other and determined by teacher behavior. Strong positive and weak negative emotions strengthen learners’ attitudes toward the foreign language and ultimately result in better performance and progress. 