
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Within a post-covid-19 world, where online learning has become an integral part of second language (L2) teaching and learning process, students are required to master online self-regulation. Given the open and nonlinear nature of online learning environments, learners often have trouble in practicing self-regulation strategies. Consequently, there is a persistent need for understanding how L2 students self-regulate their writing process in such an autonomous learning context and explore any possible effect of writing-proficiency level on students’ use of these strategies. This study investigated self-regulated strategy use among two writing-proficiency groups (low & high) of English majors while completing two online writing tasks. The researcher looked at the types of the strategies used and how they are used. The study found that though both high-and-low-proficiency groups used the same strategy types, they differed in their intentions behind using these strategies and the way they used them. What the researcher did 
● Students were female seniors majoring in English, aged between 21-22. Their proficiency level is supposed to be Level C1 (CEFR) when they finish their study program. 
● To examine students’ writing-proficiency level, the researcher invited 85 students to sit for a writing test in class with one given topic adapted from IELTS Task 2. 
● Only high and low proficiency students (50) were invited to type two argumentative essays on their laptops using the screen recording software ‘Bandicam’, which helped tracking the students’ actions and pauses while composing. The students were allowed to use all Microsoft word processing features and all available online writing resources. 
● The researcher and another assistant researcher watched the videos and took notes by filling in an observation form for notes concerning self-regulated strategy use. These notes formed the basis for selecting the video segments for the stimulated recall. 
● The researcher conducted the stimulated recall (15–20 min) with the participants within the 48-hr following the submission of the two writing tasks using the Zoom app. Segments of the screen-recorded videos were played back to stimulate the students to recall how they thought, what they had done, and why they made certain choices while working on the two writing tasks. Additionally, both structured and open probing questions were used to ensure all possible strategies were elicited from the students. 
What the researchers found
 
● Both proficiency groups used eleven self-regulated writing strategies, six tapping personal self-regulation. 
● The most frequently used strategies by the high-proficiency group were goal setting and planning, revising, and the least frequent strategies were environmental structuring and transforming. While the most frequent strategies by the low-proficiency group were seeking information, and the least frequent strategies were time planning and self-evaluation. 
● The two groups differed in five strategies tapping the personal processes (goal setting and planning, organizing, revising, time planning, and self-evaluation) and one strategy tapping behavioral processes (self-monitoring), overall favoring the high writing-proficiency group. 
Things to consider
 
● Using self-regulated writing strategies is context-specific; thus, not all strategies used in traditional learning context may be suitable for online context, yet this finding should be treated cautiously, as the type of the two writing tasks (timed tasks) may have interfered with the students' use of these strategies. 
● In this study, low-proficiency students focused on revising only linguistic errors, so writing instructors are encouraged to strike a balance between meaning-focused and accuracy-focused feedback in their teaching and to personalize feedback through utilizing online facilities, such as audio chats, to give more informative feedback. 
● The study found that low proficiency students demonstrated poor internet skills, which resulted in accessing unprofessional websites when seeking information and selecting model texts, so more research is needed to examine the role of internet self-efficacy, that may impact self-regulated strategies use within online context. 