
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The contemporary literature shows that learning motivation, a psychological construct, is a driving force for ongoing learning process. It can interpret the causes of achievements and failure. Classroom assessment can be a powerful tool to foster learning motivation. A growing body of research has attempted to explain the proposed relationship between classroom assessment and motivation. Accordingly, classroom assessment is used to increase students' efforts in learning and change their attitudes toward learning. In Asia, classroom assessment is a socioculturally problematic issue. Asian students may feel emotionally charged when they receive less-than-satisfactory feedback. Despite a growing interest in classroom assessment, previous research showed a lack of qualitative data to interpret the relationship between classroom assessment and learning motivation. This study explores the classroom assessment practices and their relationship with learning motivation in two different types of schools in Vietnam: high-performing grammar school and middle-range regular (traditional public) school. The results showed that it was not the frequency but the characteristics of assessment that fostered learning motivation. 
What the researchers did
 
● First, we observed how four L2 teachers assessed eight seventh-grade classes (age 12-13) at the two schools (four classes per school). 
● Then, we administered questionnaires to the students in these eight classes to investigate the relationship between classroom assessment and learning motivation. 
● Finally, we conducted semi-structured interviews with the four teachers (each teacher in charge of two classes) and ten randomly stratified students to interpret such a relationship. 
● Quantitative data were projected into a statistical program for analysis, and qualitative data were analyzed thematically. 
What the researchers found
 In general, there was a the difference in the practice of assessment between the two schools was. 
● 
● Although classroom assessment was conducted more often at the middle-range regular school, students at the high-performing grammar school indicated a higher level of learning motivation. 
● The students revealed that it was not the quantity but quality of teachers’ assessment events that motivated them. 
● It was not only the characteristics of the assessment task but also the teacher characteristics that motivated students to learn. 
Things to consider
 
● While previous research showed that classroom assessment event is generally characterized by the assessment task, environment, and students, affecting learning motivation, this study added that teacher characteristics are also a factor in classroom assessment that enhances learning motivation. 
● Learning motivation can be generated when classroom assessment, which is carried out by teachers, reflects teachers’ understanding of students’ prior experiences, preferences, and personality traits. It might be important for teachers to diagnose the learners and learning. 
● 
● Future research can replicate this study by comparing how learning motivation is generated by L2 classroom assessment in different cultures and provide experimental evidence. 