
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Participation in voluntary reading groups in which teachers regularly read and discuss peer-reviewed articles can positively impact teachers’ professional knowledge and practice; however, little is known about the lifespans of such groups or the factors that influence the members’ use of the information in the articles. In this longitudinal study, the researchers examined the evolution of nine teacher-led reading groups to identify the types of communities of practice (CoPs) that emerged and the factors that produced and sustained them. Findings revealed that complex interactions between numerous factors (e.g., researchers, practitioners, and institutional and environmental forces) promoted the ongoing reading and discussing of research articles in four of the nine reading groups beyond the closure of the 5-year study. When researchers encourage, guide, and support teacher reading groups, it is possible to co-create the necessary conditions for the groups to develop into ongoing autonomous CoPs. 
What the researchers did
 
● They invited teachers from local adult English as a second language (ESL) programs to form reading groups with colleagues in their programs. 
● They facilitated the establishment of nine reading groups composed of 6 to 12 teachers (76 teachers in total).  
● They encouraged the group members to identify shared professional learning and development (PLD) needs, then select, read, and meet to discuss one article per month during the academic year to address their needs. 
● They asked the teachers to complete questionnaires and participate in focus groups about the impact of reading and discussing peer-reviewed articles and the processes used in their reading groups. 
● They traced and compared the evolution of the reading groups to examine the unique factors that led to the ongoing autonomous CoPs. 
What the researchers found
 One year after the closure of the study (in year 6), four of the nine reading groups/CoPs continued to read and discuss peer-reviewed articles on a regular basis. The sustainability and extent of research knowledge uptake and implementation in the continuing groups/CoPs resulted from numerous factors that interacted over time. Some of the main factors were as follows: 
● Researchers building and maintaining professional networks in the local TESOL community and facilitating the formation of teacher-led reading groups. 
● Researchers providing suggestions for organizing the reading groups, relevant articles to address the teachers’ PLD needs, and generic questions to guide the groups’ discussions if needed. 
● Researchers challenging group members to find relevance in the articles, even if the research was not contextually relevant or directly transferable to their practice. 
● ESL program administrators formally recognizing reading groups as a valuable form of PLD as a result of the researchers’ suggestion. 
● Teachers having stable employment, committing to their colleagues in the groups, enjoying their reading group experiences and the collaborative learning in their groups, having homogeneous focused PLD needs, and needing to adapt information from the articles so they could apply it in their local context to resolve issues in their practice. 
● Groups having a critical mass of members with graduate degrees in TESOL/applied linguistics who were socialized by the researchers into reading and discussing research to improve their practice. 
Things to consider
 
● Future research is needed to better understand how teacher-led reading groups/CoPs that regularly read and use information from peer-reviewed research articles in their practice can be fostered in a wider range of teaching contexts and to identify the most effective conditions that allow the CoPs to flourish over time. 