

What this research was about and why it is important 
 Over time, research into language teaching has become increasingly intellectualized. With this has come a growing divide between language teachers and researchers. It has been argued that, because of this gap, applied linguistics research has become increasingly out of touch, irrelevant,, and of little practical use to classroom teachers. In this environment, the way in which researchers identify themselves is important, and there have been calls for more people who identify as both teacher and researcher to become more involved in reporting research about language teaching. This article explores the extent to which authors of language teaching research establish their expertise as researchers and teachers. The findings suggest that authors primarily establish their identities via their researcher credentials (e.g., PhD, publications, academic titles), despite a majority of authors having extensive practitioner experience and professional teaching credentials. 
What the researchers did
 
● They identified six journals which are focused specifically on research about language teaching.  
● From each of these journals, they downloaded the author bios from the most recent 80 articles.  
● The author bios were analyzed by looking at which identities were mentioned, the order identities were mentioned in, and the prominence given to each identity.  
● They also contacted the authors of these studies directly and asked them to complete a questionnaire about their identity and their thoughts on the relationship between teaching and research.  
What the researchers found
 
● In the majority of the bios, the authors identified themselves using their academic job title. 
● Other ways of establishing a research identity were by mentioning research credentials with an emphasis on research-oriented qualifications such as a PhD, and by sharing research interests. 
● The questionnaire revealed that many of the authors had extensive experience with teaching, and a majority of authors (more than 80%) had professional teaching qualifications. 
● However, such teaching experiences and qualifications were often not foregrounded in their bios. 
● In terms of opinions of research, the respondents were more likely to believe that research is written for researchers than they were to believe it is written for teachers.  
Things to consider
 
● Although there may be a gap between some of the interests of researchers and teachers, the relationship may not be so divided, with most researchers also being current or former language teachers themselves. 
● Journals with short-length articles (e.g., 3,500 words) like ELT Journal seem to be more attractive avenues for teacher-researchers to publish classroom research in, so editors of journals about language teaching should consider promoting articles of this type. 
● Authors of research on language teaching should make greater efforts to communicate their teaching expertise and credentials in their bios to reduce a perceived gap between researchers and teachers. 
● Authors of language teaching research should try to use first person more to personalize sections in the paper, especially those which discuss real-world classroom implications of the research. 
● Authors should try to make their research more accessible to language teachers by offering publicly available video abstracts of their research, or by publishing presentations about their research online. Material, data, open access article: Materials available from https://www.iris-database.org/. Open access article available from https://ora.ox.ac.uk How to cite this summary: Hampson, T, Rose, H., & McKinley, J. (2022). Do researchers of language teaching have teaching experience, credentials, and identities? OASIS Summary of Rose, H., & McKinley, J. (2022) in The Modern Language Journal. https://oasis-database.org This summary has a CC BY-NC-SA license.   