
What this study was about and why it is important Teachers often read aloud questions for young children in listening tests, but is this really helpful? If so, why and how? It is important to evaluate existing ways that address students’ needs in second language assessment, especially when there is a possibility that a well-intended test feature could bear negative consequences. This study investigated the relationship between reading aloud, children’s attention, whether they think reading-aloud is helping their understanding, and how well they perform in an actual listening test. In short, reading aloud could draw young children’s attention, but is assisting neither their understanding nor their test performance. 
What the researchers did
  
● Forty children aged 8-12 completed a listening (24 items adopted from TOEFL Primary Step 1 and 2 practice tests) and a reading test (25 items adopted from TOEFL Primary Step 2 practice test), all of which were multiple-choice questions with three options. In the listening test, half of the items were fully read aloud (i.e., the instructions, story, question and all answer options) and the other half were partially read aloud (i.e., only the instructions and the story were read aloud, but the question and answer options after the story were muted).  
● When the children were completing the listening test on the computer screen, their eye-movements were captured and recorded. The researchers then analysed their how long each of them looked at certain parts on the screen in fully or partially read-aloud questions. 
● After each listening item, the children were asked to give a rating (1 means I did not understand the question and 4 means I understood the question well) to indicate how much they had understood that question. 
What the researchers found
 
● When the question and answer options were read aloud to the children, they paid more attention to the corresponding elements on the screen. A potential benefit of guiding their attention is to prevent them from skipping any answer options. 
● The item understanding ratings suggested that the children did not seem to have understood the fully read-aloud questions better than the partially read-aloud ones. Therefore, reading aloud did not facilitate their understanding of the questions. 
● Listening test performance in fully and partially read-aloud questions were equivalent, indicating that reading aloud did not improve their listening scores. 
Things to consider
 Teachers should be aware of the possibility that reading aloud may or may not be as beneficial as they think, and should therefore consider carefully whether to provide children in their contexts with read-aloud assistance in the listening tests. More research is needed to evaluate other measures that are intended to address children’s needs.   