
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Collaborative dialogue, which is conversation with problem-solving, negotiation of meaning, and talk about how language works, plays an important role in second language (L2) learning. It can be elicited during collaborative writing tasks, where students work together to co-construct one written text. When working together, students may choose to speak in another language rather than the L2, which has led to questions about whether teachers should insist on L2 use during collaborative writing tasks. This research explored how students used English as a first or second language during a French collaborative writing task. Their discussions were audio-recorded, transcribed, and then analyzed for their use of English and the function it served (e.g., generating an idea, negotiating French vocabulary, grammar, or spelling). The researchers found that English was mainly used to express an idea that students were not able to express in French. The key findings suggest that rather than being counterproductive to French learning and task completion, English use helped students manage the task and navigate the required steps, discuss French vocabulary options and meaning, and complete their thought in French when proposing ideas. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study took place in a French Language Centre at an English-medium university in Montréal (Québec, Canada). 
● Participants were 20 undergraduate students learning French in a high-intermediate French class. The students were between 18 and 28, and 13 of them spoke English as their first language, while the remaining 7 spoke Farsi, Spanish, Mandarin, Japanese, Romanian, or Hindi as their first language. 
● During the fifth and ninth week of the semester, the students engaged in a collaborative writing task, where they responded to a given prompt by planning, writing, and revising a single essay together with a partner (60 minutes). Their discussions during these tasks were audio-recorded and transcribed. 
● The transcripts were coded for their use of English during their French discussions and the function that English served (e.g., to propose an idea, discuss French grammar or vocabulary, manage the task, organize their ideas). The amount of English spoken for each function was totaled by word count and classified as either a predominant English turn (mostly English) or a minor English turn (mostly French). 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, about 11% of the students’ discussions consisted of English words. 
● Regardless of whether English was their first or second language, French learners switched to English for similar purposes. 
● The most frequent uses of English were to propose or clarify an idea, to discuss the meaning of or search for a French word, or to manage the task (e.g., clarify instructions, direct the writing activity). 
● When students switched to English to direct the activity, engage in interpersonal exchanges, or discuss the spelling of French words, they would more often do so by speaking predominantly English sentences, rather than predominantly French sentences. 
Things to consider
 
● When French learners speak majority-English sentences, they may be managing the task demands or negotiating French spelling rather than engaging in off-task chatting. 
● Learners may use English words when they do not know the appropriate French words, which helps them continue speaking in French and successfully complete the task. 
● In multicultural and multilinguistic contexts, students may benefit from using all their languages, especially since this more accurately reflects how they interact outside the classroom in their multilingual environment. 