
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Korean is well known for its systematic usage of honorifics, which are realized through different grammar and words. For example, hearer honorifics are related to the different speech ending styles. The acquisition of Korean honorifics has long been shown to present challenges to language learners. To date, teaching materials often present Korean honorifics in a reductive and piecemeal fashion (e.g., rules of thumb) rather than as holistic, coherent, and systematic concepts. This study proposes Concept-Based Language Instruction (C-BLI) as a pedagogical approach to the teaching of Korean honorifics and as a lens through which to examine learners’ unfolding conceptual development. C-BLI highlights the importance of high-quality and explicit instruction of systematic concepts and offers a flexible “blueprint” through which learners may actively work to internalize conceptual knowledge into personally relevant meaning. This article documents the implementation of C-BLI as a pedagogical intervention in a beginning-level Korean class and reports Korean as a Foreign Language (KFL) learners’ conceptual development of the social indexical meaning of honorifics (e.g., closeness and separation) through three interrelated subconcepts (i.e., power, distance, and formality). This study showcases how second language (L2) teaching materials can be designed and how teaching materials and classroom spaces can be used to promote learners’ conceptual development through C-BLI. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited and followed a cohort of seven learners from a second-semester beginning-level KFL course, who all completed the first semester KFL course in the previous summer or spring semester. 
● We designed and implemented C-BLI to teach Korean hearer honorifics (e.g., speech endings) and referent honorifics (e.g., subject honorification) over the 16-week. 
● We collected various data types at different phases of C-BLI implementation, which include the following: 
● Pre-C-BLI intervention: pre-appropriateness judgment questionnaires (pre-AJQ) 
● During-C-BLI intervention: audio-recordings of in-class interactions (i.e., whole-group and pair work) with developed multimodal teaching and learning materials, written analysis and reflection of the usage of speech endings in provided scenarios, and verbal reflections centered around honorific usage 
● Post-C-BLI intervention: post-AJQ, a metaphorical visualization of learners’ understanding of honorifics, a role-playing script created with a peer and an individual written reflection, and a skit script with a group. 
● We analyzed the data for the hearer honorifics qualitatively and historically over time to trace the learners’ unfolding conceptual development of honorifics. 
What the researchers found
 
● The post-AJQ results indicate the learners’ overall increased awareness of using honorifics based on the underlying and interrelated subconcepts of power, distance, and formality. In this way, learners’ qualitative responses provide evidence that their previous rules-of-thumb-based reasoning in the pre-AJQ has been transformed into a more holistic, systematic, and conceptually-based understanding. 
● The in-depth qualitative analysis from a focal participant demonstrates that at the early phase of C-BLI, her analysis of speech endings was not voluntary as her thinking was dependent upon communicating with her peers and using multimodal learning materials. As C-BLI proceeded, her analysis and usage of speech endings became more voluntary and independent as the interrelated subconcepts began to guide her mental and practical activity. 
Things to consider
 
● The quality of instruction and of material design is crucial in setting the stage for learners’ language development. 
● Future studies should consider how to incorporate various concepts in a coherent way into the curriculum. 
● Future studies should consider implementing C-BLI from the beginning level of the language classroom. 