
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Concept-Based Instruction is a new approach to second language teaching that needs to be tested in real classrooms to find out if it is effective for teaching specific language phenomena, and if so, for whom and how. Concept-Based Instruction teaches students a wholistic concept, rather than a set of rules, and guides them through a set of activities that help them internalize and personalize the concept. Here 16 college-level true beginners of Spanish were taught the concept of boundedness, that is, that the preterite and imperfect tenses present two different viewpoints of past situations, either bounded (preterite) or unbounded (imperfect). The students were able to learn the concept and to use it to improve their speaking and writing, which suggests that the concept is understandable and that Concept-Based Instruction methods are effective.  
What the researchers did
 
● 16 college students in a beginning Spanish course were taught the concept of boundedness over three class sessions with an animated video series that visualized the boundedness of a speaker’s viewpoint when talking about the past. 
● Researchers measured o students’ ability to provide accurate definitions of preterite and imperfect before and after instruction, o o and their ability to use preterite and imperfect accurately when writing or speaking about their own past their comprehension of the instruction, their comprehension of the concept of boundedness, experiences. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students were able to define preterite and imperfect accurately (that is, in terms of viewpoint) after instruction, and they retained this ability 10 weeks later. 
● Students were able to apply the concept of boundedness to describe how they use preterite and imperfect on homework activities. 
● Students rated the instruction as very comprehensible (80% comprehensible on average). 
● Students became more accurate in using preterite and imperfect in their writing (21% gain) and speaking (31% gain) after instruction, and much of this improvement was retained 3 weeks after instruction. 
Things to consider
 
● The results suggested that Concept-Based Instruction methods, using the concept of boundedness presented in a simple visual format (the animated video series), were effective for teaching preterite and imperfect. 
● However, not all students were able to understand or use the concept equally as well, and future research should investigate these individual differences. 
● Students did not describe the preterite and imperfect using imprecise rules of thumb, as previous research has found. It might be that a conceptual approach to teaching can help beginning learners avoid those kinds of inaccuracies. 
● However, the study did not include a control group, so future research should directly compare this Concept-Based Instruction approach with more conventional (rule-based) instruction. 