
What this research was about and why it is important 
  A key approach to developing a second language is to have learners engage in oral communication activities in the classroom; however, in many situations this poses a wide range of challenges that learners and teachers struggle to overcome. This study investigated the reasons why learners’ intentions to talk in the classroom do not always come to fruition with the factors elicited in the study ordered into to a hierarchy of learner challenges that can inform oral communication focused pedagogical decisions.  
What the researchers did
 
● Recruited Japanese students engaged in classroom conversations with their on-campus international peers. 
● Video recorded the classroom conversations. 
● Had study participants rate their own intentions to talk using specially designed software. 
● Used the ratings to guide a stimulated recall interview with each participant focusing on learner intentions to talk and difficulties in realizing those intentions into observable communication. 
● Used the elicited data to develop a hierarchy of learner challenges that can hinder efforts to talk in a second language. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overwhelmingly, intentions to talk did not translate into actual communication. 
● Key motivators to talk were: (a) task completion obligations, (b) turn-taking obligations, (c) obligations/desires to develop personal relationships, (d) desires to access new/further information, (e) desires to share topical information, (f) desires to avoid negative judgements, and (g) desires to personally challenge oneself. 
● Sometimes learners were conflicted between efforts to talk and efforts to accommodate others. 
● Key factors impinging or enabling the realization of talk from intentions to talk were grouped into 4 main, interrelated themes: (a) motivational forces, (b) listening-related issues, (c) topic-related issues, and (d) language production issues. 
Things to consider
 
● While many studies of learner talk examine causes of silence as a problem to be overcome, this study differentiates between silence as a manifestation of a lack of engagement and silence as a manifestation of unrealized efforts to communicate. 
● By doing so, this study uncovers previously undetected phenomena of compulsion to talk and enforced silences. 
● The study also uncovers various actively engaged listening behaviours that can account for learner silence. 
● The implications of the model developed in this study for language teachers are threefold. o First, the model can be used to identify talk-related difficulties that learners are having in the classroom, and can be used to guide the focus of pedagogical interventions. o Second, leaners accounts of their group-work motivations can be used to improve classroom task-design. o Third, the results indicate that learners need to be trained to recognize opportunities to develop their own talk in group work. 
● While this study focuses on classroom phenomena in the Japanese context, out-of-class L2 behaviours and classroom behaviours in other contexts may differ.  