
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This research article was about two non-White and non-native English speaking immigrant mothers, who transitioned to become certified public school English as a Second or Foreign Language (ESL) teachers in the Midwest (United States). The study was part of a grant project funded by the U.S. Department of Education. During the grant project, the two participants joined a Saturday panel as immigrant parents. They shared their lived experiences as immigrant mothers of color who transitioned to become teachers. The researcher advocated for teacher education programs to include and validate the voices of immigrant mothers as they offered invaluable perspectives to all the teacher candidates in the program. What the researcher did 
● The two mothers of color shared their experiences as immigrant mothers of ESL learners at a Saturday panel. 
● The researcher took notes and arranged the participants’ responses in a table for easy reference. 
● The researcher reviewed the literature to find similar studies in the fields of TESOL and applied linguistics. 
● The researcher analyzed the data to find themes and patterns among the participants’ recounts of their lived experiences. What the researcher found 
● The mothers of color experienced racial marginalization and whitewashing ideologies that perpetuated in public school settings. For instance, there was cultural expectation of parental assistance in their children’s homework and assignments, as well as an assumption of the ESL parents’ cultural understandings of festivals and holidays celebrated in the USA. 
● ESL parents and children were often forced to racially categorize themselves with inadequate categories. For example, when there was no “other” option and the person was not White, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, or African American. 
● ESL parents and children faced a racial dilemma of being in-between the White and Black racial tension, with a challenged sense of belonging. 
● Based on the findings, the researcher proposed a new frame for transforming teacher education programs so that the voices of immigrant mothers and children would be included and validated. 
Things to consider
 
● The researcher asked the readers to critically review and contest the status quo of teacher education programs for ESL certification, so that the voices and lived experiences of immigrant mothers of color would be included. 
● The researcher asked the TESOL and applied linguistics community to reconsider the racial categorizations that exist in the educational systems and create inclusive ways for immigrant families to self-identify. 
● The researcher proposed a new framework for acknowledging and disrupting whitewashing ideologies in K-12 public schools and teacher education programs. 