
What this research was about and why it is important 
  This study focused primarily on how and in what context pupils aged 7-12 from two different schools (a state school and an international school) in a Norwegian town utilize their language repertoire. Specifically, the researchers examined multilingualism in the younger generation, and indications for an ‘elite character’ regarding pupils attending an international school, where classes are held in English. This study is particularly interesting because the data paint an interesting picture of what multilingualism in youth looks like nowadays and consequently provides expectations of what multilingualism could look like in the future. The researchers’ aim was to take all pupils and languages present into consideration, no matter their background or use. The study showed that the children’s language repertoire is very versatile in both schools, offering more similarities than differences which leads to the conclusion that pupils from an international school do not reflect a remarkable ‘elite character’ in the use of languages. 
What the researchers did
 
● In this study, 264 pupils aged 7-12 participated in total. 146 of them were attending a state school where they are taught in Norwegian, predominately. The other 118 pupils go to an IB school which means that they are using English as the main language. 
● The pupils were asked to fill out a so-called ‘language map’ without any preformulated languages. It was the researchers’ aim to capture the children’s perspective and therefore they were required to note down the languages they use and where they use them by themselves. 
● The pupils’ teacher performed the data collection in the classroom, hence the design had to be kept simple and easy to handle. The familiar surroundings were supposed to help the pupils in completing the ‘language map’ as accurately as possible. 
● Finally, the teachers sent the data to the researchers, who then collated the results in excel tables. 
What the researchers found
 
● Pupils from both schools offered a very diverse repertoire of languages. In total, there are 40 languages used among the children and the average pupil was categorized as trilingual. 
● There is no obvious pattern that differentiates the schools regarding the use of different languages. The languages used at both schools are mainly from Germanic origin, belonging to the Indo-European language family. Other major language families are present, as well. 
● It is interesting to consider that the difference of multilingual use between the two groups is bigger in the domain of family and friends than when it comes to media. In the context of media, the majority revealed that they were using two or more languages. 
● The majority of pupils from the international school used at least two languages when they are with their friends while only one language is used among the majority of pupils attending a state school. 
● The differences in the usage of languages between the two schools would have to be remarkably bigger to say that pupils from the international school are granted an ‘elite character’. 
Things to consider
 
● Both schools offer an impressive repertoire of different languages and reflect what multilingualism looks like in a medium-sized town in Norway. Even though pupils from the international school tend to use more languages in social situations, there is no data that noticeably assigns these pupils an ‘elite’ multilingualism. 
● This example of pupils in Norway could be representative for many other communities and might arouse interest in one’s own multilingual environment. 
● It should be taken into consideration that a questionnaire filled out by children did not offer thorough information which is why this study has the potential to encourage further study on the topic by involving the children’s parents. Additional interviews might be a great source for more information regarding the upbringing in a multilingual environment. 