
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Language learning in today’s world of digital ubiquity increasingly occurs beyond the physical walls of formal classrooms, in highly autonomous, self-directed, and creative ways. As a result, formal classrooms are slowly drifting away from being the central venue of language learning towards being just one of the venues where it may occur. The dynamic nature of this shift and its implications are just recently garnering attention in language learning research, but much remains underexplored, for example, how learning success is achieved, what successful practices look like, and what typifies the autonomy inherent to these successes. In this study, we adopted a multiple-case study design with participants who were at different life stages, self-identified as advanced English as a second / foreign language (L2) users, and believed that learning and using English had changed their lives in positive ways. We focused on their development of digital learner autonomy and the entanglement of their L2 practices, identities, and livelihoods. The analysis shows that agency, competence, and self-efficacy played key roles in autonomy development. The findings shed light on the potential role of language educators in leveraging activity in the digital wilds for formal learning purposes. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study participants were recruited from an online alumni forum of a university of foreign language studies in Shanghai, China. 
● Three participants – university-educated working adults at different life stages, self-identified as advanced English L2 users, who believed that learning and using English had changed their lives in positive ways, with substantially varied backgrounds in technology use, learning experiences, and personal interests—were selected for in-depth analysis to answer the research questions of this study. 
● A variety of data from different sources and across spatial and temporal scales were collected, including interviews, narratives, and images and photos generated by the participants. 
● Individual cases were developed to answer the research questions through the theoretical lens of the analysis—
complexity theory. 
What the researchers found
 
● These three successful learners engaged in a variety of digital and non-digital literacy practices both individual and social. 
● We found that successful autonomous language learning develops and is developed by the practice of volitional agency in selecting and assembling digital resources in keeping with their desires. As participation in new communities and practices became normalized, it became part of their habitus, which develops through the practice of everyday livelihood and allows for self-efficacy to emerge. 
● One key finding of this study points to the importance of alignment in fostering self-efficacy, that is, it may not develop fully if one's reflective evaluation of one's own digital literacies, various competences, personal goals and interests, livelihoods, and identities do not align. 
Things to consider
 
● Educators can give learners choices in assignments and projects and can engage identity in classrooms by facilitating discussions with learners about why and how learning English (or other languages) can add value to their lives 
● Educators can encourage autonomy by discussing the challenges and rewards of language learning, and by sharing stories about how learning an additional language like English can lead to new identities and livelihoods. 
● Educators can develop competence and digital literacies directly by incorporating assignments that require the use of digital tools, for example multimodal composition or digital storytelling. 