
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Learners’ English seems different from that of native speakers in that their English is influenced by their mother tongue. Even if they are aware of the involvement of their mother tongue in English, it seems very hard for them to be totally free from it. To explore how their mother tongue is mediated in their English, ths study used word association tests (WAT) in which one word makes the learner think of another word. That is, one word from one language (e.g., English) may or may not lead them to think of another word from the other language (e.g., Chinese). The study found an impact of their mother tongue on their English especially in the case of lower proficient learners. The research also found that other factors such as learning English through their mother tongue, the type of English input they were receiving, and their motivation level all affected the extent of first language mediation. 
What the researchers did
 
● 108 Chinese university students who were English majors were selected. They varied in proficiency level, learning experiences, English input, and motivation. 
● They were split into three English proficiency groups (High, Mid, Low). 
● They were tested in WATs (both receptive and productive formats) using 24 stimulus words. 
● Their scores were compared among the English proficiency groups. 
● The relations between their scores and learner differences (learning experiences, input, and motivation) were examined. 
What the researchers found
 
● Their mother tongue was involved in their English in both receptive and productive tests. The influence of their native language was found in all proficiency groups. It did not disappear even in the high-level proficiency groups. 
● The influence of their mother tongue was affected by learning English through the medium of their mother tongue. The more English words were learned through the translation of the mother tongue, the more influence of their mother tongue was found in the learners’ English. 
● The influence of their mother tongue was affected by the type of English input the learners received. The influence of their first language was less evident depending on whether they received higher quality and more intensive input in and out of the classroom use. 
● The influence of their mother tongue was affected by their integrative motivation. The impact was found to be less obvious if their motivation and goal were to study English for enjoyment and to learn the language in order to be a part of the English community and culture. 
Things to consider
 
● Based on the findings, the study can provide some advice for educators and language learners. First, it is important to have both quantity and quality of English input in and out of the classroom. Second, English learning through the translation of mother tongue doesn’t seem to be effective for learners in order to produce native-like English in everyday interactions. 
● Since this study used the written-written type of tests, further research may explore other types of tests such as aural-oral, aural-written, or written-oral. 