
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Grit is defined as a combination of perseverance and passion for long-term goals. It has been argued to predict success outcomes in various domains beyond talent. As such, in this study we sought to test this hypothesis by examining the comparative effects of grit and aptitude on language achievement. Furthermore, we investigated how age, L2 learning experience, and gender may influence one’s grit and aptitude levels. Our findings demonstrated that both L2 grit and aptitude similarly and positively predicted language achievements. Moreover, certain aspects of L2 grit and aptitude were found to be malleable as learners aged and gained more L2 learning experiences, whereas their gender had no significant part in this respect.     
What the researchers did
 
● The study participants were 236 English-major university students who studied English as a foreign language in Iran. The sample comprised 168 females and 68 males whose age ranged from 18 to 66. 
● The students completed the L2 domain-specific grit scale and took the download version of the LLAMA aptitude tests. The students’ end-of-semester scores in grammar, speaking, and listening courses, and their overall GPA, were collected as measures of their language achievement.  
What the researchers found
 
● Both L2 grit and language aptitude similarly and positively predicted language achievement.  
● Age negatively predicted language aptitude, whereas L2 learning experience positively predicted both L2 grit and aptitude. 
● Gender played no part in L2 learners’ grit and aptitude levels. 
● The LLAMA tests had a one-component structure, and the L2 grit scale had a two-component structure. 
Things to consider
 
● We found that L2 grit and aptitude are strong predictors of L2 achievement. This finding corroborates the initial hypothesis by Angela Duckworth and her colleagues that grit is as important as talent in predicting success outcomes. Using the metaphors of the Hare and the Tortoise, on the bumpy road of L2 learning, teamwork between the Hare and the Tortoise is the key toward crossing the finish line of mastering an L2.  
● We also found that some aspects of the students’ language aptitude and L2 grit are susceptible to change as they age and gain more L2 learning experiences, but their gender played no reliable part in this regard. Future research should further examine the malleability of L2 grit and aptitude as research findings in this regard are scarce. 
● From a pedagogical perspective, we champion motivational interventions to increase the students’ persistence of effort and consistency of interest toward their L2 learning goals. 