
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In recent years, many Japanese Learners of English (JLEs) have chosen to go to the Philippines to acquire English. This, however, should not be considered the much-awaited undoing of the native speaker myth in the field of English Language Teaching (ELT). On the contrary, this study found that while many Japanese now head to the Philippines to study English under the tutelage of Filipino teachers, they are invited to internalize native-speakerist ideals which privilege standard American or British English. Through the use of multimodal discourse analysis, this study examined texts, photos, and videos found in ten popular webpages that sell the Philippines as an alternative destination for English education. Our analysis revealed that Filipino English teachers (FETs) are discursively constructed as ELT’s affordable labor providers through which the hierarchy of Englishes is reinforced. 
What the researchers did
 
● We examined the discourse on Philippine English and Filipino English teachers on the webpages of 10 language schools which sell the Philippines as an ideal destination for learning English among Japanese nationals. 
● We translated into English texts what were originally written in Japanese. 
● We attended to the multimodal data (e.g., language used, photos, and videos) and examined the kind of narrative or discourse they produce regarding Filipinos and Philippine English. 
● We identified key themes of discourse, including language ideologies or beliefs and attitudes towards English and its speakers, produced by the multimodal data. 
● We linked the discourses produced by multimodal data to the context, including educational, economic and historical discourses in the Philippines and Japan. 
What the researchers found
 
● FETs and their English are constructed as substitutes for “native” English speaking teachers. 
● FETs are good quality teachers at low cost. 
● The schools’ webpages emphasized the “superiority” of FETs’ accent and clear pronunciation to make them marketable to prospective Japanese learners of English. 
● These language schools silence Filipinos’ accented English by not hiring potential teachers who have a strong Filipino accent. Their webpages assure customers that with some quality control, FTE is acceptable or even desirable. 
● The schools’ webpages highlight the cost-benefit discourse, convincing JLEs that studying in the Philippines is affordable, allowing them to have one-on-one lessons with highly qualified teachers. 
Things to consider
 
● A careful examination of our data suggests that the phenomenon of Japanese nationals now choosing to study in the Philippines is undergirded by discourses reinforcing the native speaker myth. 
● Language schools for JLEs capitalize on the marketability of FTE and declare the superiority of native English speakers, while dismissing “local Filipinos’ English” because it is not sellable in the ELT market. 
● The normative discourse of the superiority of inner circle varieties of English in ways that prejudice speakers of non-prestigious varieties of English is being circulated online. 
● It is crucial for FETs to take the initiative and learn to engage in conversations that resist their marginalization and assert their legitimacy in the profession.  