
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Creativity is not just an ability limited to talented people and has been regarded as one of the individual difference factors. Creativity is commonly measured in terms of two major components—cognitive skills and personality. Although creativity may play the important role in second language (L2) learning and communication, it has been long neglected in the field of L2 acquisition. Focusing on L2 speaking performance, this study examined to what extent students’ creativity skills are associated with different aspects of L2 speaking performance in a picture narrative task and an argumentative task. The study showed that students with high creativity-related cognitive skills tended to produce an extended and structured discourse, while those with creative personality used more complex grammatical structures and abstract vocabulary items. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 60 Japanese learners of English as a second language. They all were university students from different disciplines. All of them had received a relatively uniform primary and secondary education in Japan. 
● The participants completed a Remote Associates Test and an Alternative Uses Test in Japanese for an assessment of their creativity in terms of cognitive skills. 
● The participants self-judged to what extent they are versatile, progressive, creative, quick-witted, with wide interest, and curious in the form of questionnaire items in Japanese to measure their creativity in terms of personality. 
● The participants performed a picture narrative task and an argumentative task in English. 
● Researchers analyzed the speaking performance in terms of various linguistic features, such as grammar, vocabulary, fluency, and discourse. 
What the researchers found
 
● In the picture narrative task, the creative personality score was related to the use of subordinated clauses (e.g., while, because, to-infinitive) and abstract vocabulary items, while the creativity-related cognitive skill scores were associated with the use of discourse markers. 
● In the argumentative task, the creative personality score had no relationship with any features of speaking performance. However, the creativity-related cognitive skill scores were positively related to the frequency of discourse markers in the speech as well as the amount of speech. 
● In both speaking tasks, creativity had no relationship with grammatical accuracy and fluency. 
Things to consider
 
● L2 learners with high creative thinking skills may be likely to pay attention to the discourse-level organization of speech and use discourse markers to explicitly indicate the relationship between ideas. In an open-ended speaking task that requires L2 users to generate their own ideas, creative thinking skills may assist in coming up with more ideas to verbalise. 
● Students with creative personality may tend to explicitly express the relationship between events and information. When the content of speech is specified by the prompt such as picture cartoon, they may prefer to use subordinate clauses (e.g., while, because, to-infinitive) to elaborate on the details of the story. 
● Students with creative personality may also prefer to extract abstract concepts from visual prompts and to describe them by general and abstract vocabulary (e.g., dog, as opposed to corgi). 
● These findings suggest that teachers can enhance some aspects of speaking performance by creating a classroom environment where learners are encouraged to use their creativity in L2 (e.g., game-like activities, open-ended discussion) and by assisting students with lower level of creativity in developing ideas and organizing their speech. 
● These findings might be specific to a particular group of English learners whose first language is Japanese. Further research is needed for language learners from different first language and cultural backgrounds and with target languages other than English. 