
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Gaining insight into teacher identity provides us with a window into their beliefs and practices. When teachers experience new teaching conditions, they may have to adopt or play new roles and lay claim to different identities. This may bring about a change in how they view themselves as professionals and how they are viewed by others. Thus, the potential for identity (re)construction comes to the fore in such situations. Our study explored this phenomenon in the journey of two teachers (English language teacher and homeroom teacher) in the same classroom where they teach English language and content through a joint syllabus to help children become bilingual at a preschool in Turkey. The teachers were educated to understand bilingual education (BE) and to develop skills to co-teach by being present simultaneously in class. After the initial education, they were observed and provided feedback by the first author almost once a week throughout the year in order to monitor how the new BE and co-teaching practices are implemented. The follow-up observation and feedback sessions played a key role in the process of the two teachers’ learning and their (re)construction of new identities together. In monolingual context English is often taught as a foreign language including pre-schools. However, our study shows that BE practices implemented by co-teachers can influence their teacher identity, thereby leading to successful bilingual acquisition processes.  
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers asked the co-teachers to record themselves and answer questions about their practices prior to BE, their induction into BE, practices within BE, their co-teacher, and the influence of other stakeholders. 
● Based on initial coding analysis of responses to these questions, a written follow-up was designed to help us take into account any missing details. 
● An online interview was also conducted with the co-teachers about their collaborative bilingual practices and their experiences as dyads. 
● The data was thematically analyzed and then restoried into an overall narrative. 
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers discovered a parallel process of identity reconstruction whereby the teachers not only adopted the role of BE co-teacher, but they also constructed an identity in relation to each other that we labeled dyadic identity. 
● The teachers’ transitioning to a new role helped them see their previous professional practices in a new light and adopt more learner-centered and interactive approaches to teaching. 
● The development of a dyadic identity, especially in a supportive work environment, allowed the teachers to become part of a single functioning unit and develop deep collaboration and rapport in contrast to the conflicts experienced by language and content co-teachers often reported in the literature. 
Things to consider
 
● 
● Identity reconstruction for teachers is facilitated when the institutional context is highly supportive, which includes providing teacher education and sustained professional support based on observation and feedback for effective teacher development. If reconstruction of identity is based on innovative practices such as BE, they are more likely to engage in such practices and teach in new ways integrating content and language. If language and content teachers are encouraged and enabled to transition to a newer role, such as BE co-teacher, which puts them on equal footing, they are more likely to develop mutuality and deep collaboration rather than run into conflict. 
● Pre-school homeroom teachers and language teachers need to work more closely by teaching language and content 
● together if they are to create a bilingual acquisition process. 