
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This essay discusses the findings from seven studies that all focused on the same pedagogical experiment in high school Spanish as a foreign language classes. The experiment compared traditional deductive grammar about the pronoun se in Spanish to a guided inductive approach called PACE. This stands for the four lesson phases: presentation of a text; attention drawn to the use of se in the text; co-construction by students and teacher of the rule; and extension activities to practice using the target grammar. Instead of co-construction, the deductive classes were given the grammatical explanation by the teacher. The objective of this paper was to consider the seven studies as a whole and to reflect on their broader implications for research and practice. 
What the researchers did
 
● Students aged 14-17 years in six classes in three high schools in the US were tested before and after experiencing either a deductive or PACE intervention; two other classes received no instruction about se. 
● Interactions during co-construction in PACE and extension activities for both groups were recorded. 
● Two studies analysed test scores; the other five studies examined transcripts of classroom interaction from one school to shed light on the process of learning during the experiment. 
What the researchers found
 
● Statistical analyses revealed that both deductive and inductive instruction led to gains in learning as compared to the control classes. Student performance in the deductive and PACE classes was found to be comparable in one study, whereas in the other study, the more familiar deductive approach led to stronger performance on some types of test items. 
● The expected variation across classes and schools indicates that learners' test performance was influenced by local factors (e.g., socio-economic status, teacher experience) that were not controlled for in the study. 
● In the PACE class, metalinguistic discussions did not always lead to a clear or accurate statement of the rules. As a consequence, students' understanding of the target grammar seemed to vary from limited to partial. 
● The four extension tasks offered learners a varying amount of opportunities to use the target grammar and to focus on the language arising during the task. Some interactional features were more frequent in the Deductive class, whereas the PACE learners used se correctly to a greater degree. 
● During the communicative tasks, students spent more time negotiating how they were going to carry out the communicative task than focusing on language issues related to task completion. 
Things to consider
 
● There is no straightforward answer to the question of whether deductive or inductive teaching is a better approach to teaching grammar. 
● Many aspects of both approaches still need to be investigated in a variety of classroom settings. 
● Both deductive and inductive approaches to teaching grammar are worthwhile techniques that deserve to be included in teachers' pedagogical toolkit. 
● However, the fine-grained examination of co-construction episodes in PACE highlights the difficulty for teachers of managing instructional conversation about grammar and for students of formulating their thinking about language with only limited metalinguistic terminology as a resource. 
● For widespread implementation of potentially powerful grammar teaching approaches like PACE, teachers are likely to benefit from practical and sustained support at pre-service and in-service levels. 
● Both large-scale, product-oriented research and microscopic process-oriented research make important contributions to our understanding of classroom language learning. 