
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In recent years, scholars have called into question the degree to which critical frameworks for “seeing” (for conceptualizing and approaching identity, experience, (in)equity and interaction) in applied linguistics and (English) language teaching (ELT) are sociohistorically contextualized and account for the lived experiences, needs and concerns of people in the community/ies we aim and/or claim to serve. This literature review examines critical attention to identity, experience, (in)equity and interaction in Japan, and finds that the scope of dominant, critical approaches to identity, experience and (in)equity in Japan and globalized ELT does not afford conceptual space for how the negotiation of being, belonging and becoming in ELT is situated in broader negotiations of identity and community membership. What the researcher did 
● The paper first explores how transdisciplinary scholarship, social movements and other voices have documented the sociohistorical negotiation of identity and community membership, and manifestations of privilege and marginalization, within and transcending Japanese society. The author surveyed a broad collection of scholarship exploring themes including: a) two competing narratives of Japan and Japaneseness: Japan as a historical site of homogeneity, and Japan as a sociohistorical site of movement, change, diversity and hybridity; b) the formation of national identity and notions of Selfhood-Otherness, beginning in the 1860’s, which has subsequently led to the “homogeneity” narrative and marginalization of diverse ways of being, becoming and belonging within and transcending Japanese society; c) how ideas of Selfhood-Otherness have given shape to ideas of guroubarujinzaiikusei (the cultivation of global human resources), and therefore to theory, research, policymaking, materials development, teaching, and hiring practices in ELT in Japan. 
● Next, the author reviewed and synthesized critical frameworks for approaching identity, experience and inequity, and approaches to promoting equity, in globalized ELT. This entailed how scholars are imagining how privilege and marginalization manifest and why, who experiences it, in what way/s, and how inequity might be addressed. The body of ELT work focused on Japan was then surveyed, synthesized, and unpacked. 
● The author then discusses a final question: What are the potential broader implications for theorization, inquiry, and practice for (critically-oriented) stakeholders in ELT around the globe? What the researcher found 
● Focusing on Japan: Critical scholarship limiting its scope to problematizing “nativeness in English” has paid minimal attention to broader contextualized, sociohistorical negotiations of being and belonging in Japanese society. There is a noticeable disconnect between criticality in ELT and transdisciplinary scholarship, social movements and critical communal voices which have documented the contextualized, sociohistorical negotiation of being, becoming and belonging, and manifestations of privilege-marginalization. Additionally, critically-oriented ELT scholarship implicitly and/or explicitly presents the “world beyond Japan” as diverse and complex, while diversity and complexity within Japanese society is either undiscussed or presented as “new(ish).” This serves to perpetuate the “homogeneity” narrative. 
● Speaking more broadly: Critical approaches to theory, inquiry and classroom practice originating in and/or shaped by dialogue in the “Global North,” which rely on universalized assumptions regarding categories of identity and experience (e.g., “whiteness”/“Otherness”; Oppressor/Oppressed; privileged/marginalized) can result in homogenization of context, and the marginalization of voices in ELT and the communities in which it is situated. 
●Tensions between essentialism and anti-essentialism are inscribed in criticality. “Strategic essentialism” (e.g., organization based on generalized category/ies of identity) can provide individuals and groups a way of uniting and addressing inequity. Essentialism as theory and/or a way of “seeing,” however, may neglect nuance, diversity, and complexity, and marginalize and silence voices in the communities in which we live, work, study and serve. 
Things to consider
 
● Are we imposing conceptual frameworks for seeing and paths toward addressing Othering (marginalization) upon contexts and communities, in (for example) theorization, research, and teaching? 