
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Investing in learning an international language like English is often supported at varying levels of society. But what happens when this support is suddenly removed? This study investigated why Afghanis chose to invest in studying English, and the benefits they received from investing in learning English. At the time of the study, US support was removed from the country and the Taliban reestablished power, allowing the researchers to look at how such a sudden shift in political ideology impacted the participants perceptions about their investment in learning English and what they believed their futures held under the newly established Taliban government. This study reveals how language identities are intricately linked to larger ideological forces, and how shifts in ideologies forces impact developing language identity options.  
What the researchers did
 
● The 20 participants (8 female, 12 male) for this study had all graduated with a BA in English, were between 21-35 years of age, and came from various urban and rural areas around Afghanistan  
● Each participant was given a narrative frame – sentences starters they have to finish – that asked them to reflect upon their English language learning experiences, and reasons for learning English 
● Ten participants were interviewed to follow up on comments made in the frames and delve deeper into the experiences and beliefs they held about English’s presence in Afghanistan 
● These interviews and frames were analyzed to identify ideologies, capital, and identity positions to comprehend how different factors influenced the participants’ investment in learning English 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants invested in learning English to acquire economic capital via employment, social capital via international friendships, and cultural capital via university degrees. This investment allowed them to participate in global interactions and gave the female participants in particular a sense of freedom seldom experienced by previous generations of women in the country. 
● Their sense of entrepreneurialism was rewarded pre-Taliban. When the Taliban reestablished itself as the governing power of the country there was a sense of dread regarding their future ability to maintain their investment English and continue to enjoy the benefits of knowing English. Females in particular felt that they would no longer be free to work or acquire an education. 
Things to consider
 Contributions of this study include 
● Learning English can provide capital benefit in places where such benefits were nonexistent 
● The ability to learn a new language is often dependent on larger social structures as well as individual will 
● Changes in contexts can impact the value that a language has, and the ability or willingness to invest in said language 