
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Providing instructional scaffolding in second language (L2) reading lessons could greatly enhance learners’ reading comprehension; however, it seems difficult for a single teacher to provide individualized instructional scaffolding for each L2 reader in the lesson. The present study aimed to address to such a constraint, by examining the pedagogical potential of machine reading comprehension (MRC) – a computer program that could comprehend a natural language (i.e., English), and answer to a user’s question about the target texts. In this exploratory study, the authors compiled 100 reading passages and associated testing items from an official English test, typed a range of questions to the selected MRC program, and evaluated the informativeness of the MRC’s answers. The authors found that the answers generated by the MRC are generally informative and useful, and the MRC has a potential to act as an instructional scaffolding device in L2 reading lessons. 
What the researchers did
 
● They selected the web-based trial version of Microsoft MRC as an analysis tool. 
● They collected a total of 100 reading passages and associated multiple-choice testing items (of varying question types) from the English section of College Scholastic Ability Test of South Korea. 
● The participant typed a series of questions related to the testing items into MRC, and obtained the answers. For example, o Question asked by the participant: What does the passage introduce? o Answer given by the MCR: Green Tea Packaging Design Competition 
● The authors rated the informativeness of the answers generated by MRC in terms of choosing the correct answer for each testing item. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the answers generated by the MRC were rated to be moderately-to-highly informative. 
● Although there was no significant difference, the answers for “Identifying the details of the passage” were judged to be slightly more informative than those for the other types that require some level of inferencing. 
● It was found that some ability to rephrase the original questions to obtain more informative answers from the MRC is an important skill to develop for the optimized use of the MRC. 
Things to consider
 
● The MRC has a pedagogical potential as a computer-mediated scaffolding tool in L2 reading lessons. 
● Both L2 researchers and practitioners should keep themselves informed about the advancement in MRC’s inference ability, which seems to be somewhat limited yet.  
● In future research, it may be worthwhile to examine EFL learners’ perception of the MRC in terms of its usefulness when engaging in reading comprehension tasks. 