
What this research was about and why it is important 
 When deciding how best to write a sentence, students juggle two demands. What images do I want to create? Which words will help me create these images? It is also difficult for teachers to teach students how to resolve these challenges. By talking one-on-one with students, known as a writing conference, teachers can help students imagine their narrative scenes in specific ways and show them which language choices might be useful. This case study explores how a teacher engaged primary school students in writing conferences to teach them six ways to imagine their narratives and how to make language choices. Results show that students made effective language choices as a result. Students applied the six concepts effectively while writing independently. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants included 11 Year 5 students (aged 10-11) from an English/Chinese bilingual school in Hong Kong, three of which are discussed in the paper’s case study. 
● Participants spent one week writing a fictional narrative, which was interspersed with 6-8 writing conferences with the teacher lasting roughly 7 minutes each. 
● In each conference, the teacher taught one of six concepts designed to help the student: create perspective, zoom in, track motion, scan the scene, focus on what stands out, and generate energy. 
● Each concept was taught by examining a published novel where grammar was used to achieve the concept. 
● Students then applied the taught concept to the narrative they were writing. 
● Student writing was analysed to identify instances of the grammar used to achieve the concepts taught. 
● Three participants were chosen to illustrate the different ways they responded to the conferences and how they applied the concepts in their writing. 
What the researchers found
 Participants applied the concepts successfully immediately following each conference and later during independent writing. There were three distinct ways in which they were applied. Modelling mentor text grammar 
● One of the participants described in the paper applied concepts by mimicking the types of grammar shown in the mentor texts. 
● This was done with a high degree of accuracy showing a strong awareness for grammatical features. 
● There was little to no innovation in terms of how the grammar was applied. Applying concepts but ignoring grammar 
● One of the participants in the paper applied each concept in terms of the effects it creates in the imagination, but with little regard for using the grammar taught. 
● The writing was successful and demonstrated the ability to apply several concepts at once. Explicit use of grammar while experimenting with concepts 
● The third participant in the paper was able to apply all concepts accurately during independent writing while using grammatical features in unique ways that were not taught. 
● This involved experimenting with different ways of writing the scene, using the grammar taught to achieve different effects from those learnt during conferences. 
Things to consider
 
● This study shows how teaching grammar for writing as a set of concepts for creating imaginative effects has enduring effects on how students make independent and effective choices in their narrative writing. 
● Concepts were understood as generalisable ways of imagining which could be transferred to different contexts with a repertoire of grammatical options to choose from. 
● Teaching grammar as an application of concepts is a suitable teaching method during writing conferences because the grammar is discussed in relation to the writer’s story, allowing the student to make concrete links between grammar and their imagination. 
● More research is planned to see how this approach might be applied by a group of teachers in several classrooms. 