
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In a globalized world people get confronted with situations in which they have to make and communicate decisions in a foreign language. Making a moral decision is based on past experiences, values, and emotions of an individual, but language can also have an influence on moral decision-making. Past studies suggest that bilinguals’ moral judgements are influenced by the language they use and that they tend to make more rational decisions in their second language. In order to test this hypothesis, Spanish-English bilinguals were faced with a high-conflict moral dilemma. They were asked to make a moral decision and explain their feelings associated with it in their first (L1) or second language (L2). The study showed that the learners used a higher range of emotional vocabulary in Spanish L1 than in English L2. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 204 native Spanish speakers, who had English as a second language. 
● Requirements: intermediate level of English assessed with an English vocabulary test and a language background questionnaire. 
● Learners read the footbridge dilemma: runway trolley broken down and cannot be stopped, 5 people will be killed if no action is taken; a man can be pushed onto track to stop the train. The dilemma was presented to 102 learners in L1 Spanish and to 102 learners in L2 English. 
● First, learners had to make a moral decision using a Yes/No scale. 
● Then, a 7-point Likert-type-scale (1 = totally impermissible, 4 = permissible, 7 = totally permissible) was used to collect moral permissibility ratings of their decision (no time limit; quick response). 
● Learners gave explanations for their decisions, justified them, and described the emotions they experienced. 
● The researchers calculated the number of emotional words (content words) and compared the number of high-arousal words in L1 and L2. They also analysed the arguments and whether the decision was based on emotions or rational thinking. 
● Two categories of arguments were established: deontological (emotional) and utilitarian (rational). In Spanish (L1) 8,82% would push the man.→ utilitarian decision In English (L2) 32,35% would push the man. 
What the researchers found
 Moral judgement (yes/no) 
● 
● 
● The probability that learners would choose the deontological option in L1 is higher than in L2. Moral permissibility 
● Emotional vocabulary 
● The number of high-arousal words used by the learners was higher in their L1, whereas the number of low-In L1 the learners rated the decision to push the man as less permissible than in their L2. arousal words was higher in L2. 
Things to consider
 
● The study suggests that learners tend to use more high-arousal words and emotional arguments in their L1 –
which is the language they use in naturalistic contexts – than in their L2 because of a reduced sensitivity to emotional vocabulary in L2. 
● Some learners were unsure about their decision to kill (or not) a person regardless of the language in which 
● they read the dilemma. In future studies the focus should be on moral dilemmas based on real life situations in order to get a wider range of moral responses in L1 and L2. 
● Variation in bilinguals’ L2 reading proficiency could have influenced the results. 