
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Accent work is a term used to describe the preparatory work that professional actors undergo to attain a speech accent necessary to play a role. This work is deemed important because actors must vocally match audience expectations of what a character should sound like. It is important to recognize how other workers engage in their own accent work, which includes international teaching assistants (ITAs) in North American universities. Rather than trying to play a character, ITAs may focus on ensuring that their accents do not interfere with student expectations of having an intelligible or friendly-sounding teacher, for example. Drawing on the experiences of 14 ITAs working in universities located in Ontario, Canada, this article explored the different forms of the ITAs’ accent work as well as the contextual factors that shaped such work. The accent work of these ITAs consisted of modifying accents to various degrees or engaging in tasks that did not require accent modification. These two practices of accent work were influenced by such factors as academic discipline, social locations, and audience. 
What the researchers did
 
● Through electronic flyers, I recruited 14 participants who identified as international graduate students. They were working as teaching assistants in an Ontario university and thought extensively about their accents at work. 
● From April 2017 to June 2018, each participant (1) took part in a 30-minute interview about their educational and linguistic backgrounds and how accent affected their teaching, (2) engaged in one month of journal writing to further reflect on how accent related to their work, and (3) participated in a 60-minute interview allowing them to elaborate on points made in their journals. 
● This data collection required participants to tell stories pertaining to (their) accents at work, which could range from retellings of specific situations to general observations/comments. 
● While these stories were analyzed thematically to gather general examples of accent work, they were further scrutinized for contextual clues that could explain each example of accent work. 
What the researchers found
 
● In general, the ITAs told stories of working on or around their accents as examples of their accent work. 
● The working-on-accent stories pertained to modifying an accent, which could entail lessening “foreign” phonological features or creating unique accents. 
● The working-around-accent stories described performing work without accent modification, which involved using nonverbal communication and acknowledging the potential issues of an accent. 
● The decision to work on or around an accent was influenced by such factors as the amount of oral communication needed in an academic discipline, the racial backgrounds of the ITAs, and the linguistic backgrounds of their students. 
Things to consider
 
● The stories of accent work suggest that the accent of an ITA might not always be a consistent professional obstacle. 
● In terms of improving ITA training, it could be useful to have ITAs practice nonverbal strategies to improve oral communication with students and critically reflect on the sociolinguistic implications of deciding (not) to change their accents. 
● Future research could explore other geographical contexts and use larger samples to detail further examples of accent work. 