
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Academic research related to educational issues has long been criticized for being too complex and inaccessible to classroom teachers. While these teachers are expected to be updated about the most recent developments in their respective fields, previous studies have shown that there is a lack of collaboration and dialogue between researchers and teachers, leading to a chasm between the two interrelated groups of professionals. The four authors of this paper address this issue by (a) engaging with language teachers working in Nepal, Sri Lanka and the United States, and (b) discussing pedagogical concerns that are most relevant to the latter’s teaching contexts. The authors conducted a collaborative autoethnographic study among themselves, and reflected on their work experiences with their teacher partners. Through these collaborative conversations, the authors were able to critically reflect on how effectively they were able to align research with practice in ways that were meaningful to themselves and their teacher partners. 
What the researchers did
 
● Transnational language teacher educators of color from four different Global South countries, the authors, who also doubled as participants in this study, were based in a U.S. university. In keeping with researcher positionality expectations, they each described how their personal and professional histories related to and impacted their investigation.  
● By engaging in collaborative dialogue among themselves over six months, the authors specifically reflected on their experiences as critical language teacher educators. These reflective dialogues revolved around their own community-engaged action research projects with teachers in Nepal, Sri Lanka, and the United States, respectively. 
● The autoethnographic interactions among the authors took place over Zoom meetings as well as through email exchanges and Google document-mediated reflective journals. All interactions took on a digital dimension because their study took place during the COVID-19 pandemic, which prohibited in-person interactions. 
● The narratives captured in the Google document and Zoom conversations constituted their primary data sources. The authors also commented on each other’s responses and asked questions to prompt further discussion among themselves. 
What the researchers found
 
● It is important to have reciprocal reciprocity between teachers and researchers when developing a functioning and an equitable collaboration. 
● In some cases, it can be daunting for teachers to engage in academic enterprises such as reading research papers, attending conferences, and taking part in collaborative dialogue with researchers. 
● Teachers struggle to engage in conversations outside of their assigned responsibilities due to time constraints. In some contexts, teachers also take on multiple jobs to make financial ends meet. These challenges remind researchers that they also need to take into account the material realities of teachers that exist beyond the classroom when the former carry out their research. 
● Despite these challenges, teachers are able to document their classroom practices and share with the wider community for the benefit of the profession, if they receive sufficient support from their institutions and their researcher partners. 
Things to consider
 
● A community-engaged approach to research enables researchers to engage with their teacher partners meaningfully as this approach puts their community partners (i.e., the teachers) at the center of a collaboration. 
● Teacher-researcher collaborations can build productive communities of learning by providing teachers adequate professional development support. One key way to do this is to guide teachers in converting research findings into usable pedagogical tools that can subsequently be applied to meet their local teaching needs. 