
What this research was about and why it is important 
  English Learners (ELs) attend community colleges at a greater rate than four-year schools, and within these contexts, there are significant reform efforts to reduce or eliminate developmental courses in reading, writing, and English as a Second Language (ESL). One of these reforms – the corequisite model – was designed to accelerate instruction by combining disciplinary content with English language instruction. This model has direct implications for ELs, since instructors will need to attend to students’ language development in a wide range of disciplinary courses. Using Linguistically Responsive Instruction (LRI) as a framework, this qualitative study focused on the experiences of four faculty members and their knowledge of students’ learning, their own language teaching, and the broader contextual factors at community colleges. Findings show that LRI provides a valuable lens through which to understand the sets of knowledge that instructors will need to draw from as corequisite courses for ELs are scaled up at community colleges nationwide. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study focused on four sections of a six-hour, three credit course which combines the highest level of ESL intensive writing with an introductory course in Critical Thinking. Whereas previously ELs taking the Critical Thinking course had to enroll in two separate classes for a total of nine hours of instruction, the corequisite course blended and accelerated instruction so that students could take the combined class for a total of six hours. 
● Interviews with the four faculty members teaching the course were conducted three times throughout the fall 2018 semester. Interview questions focused on the ways in which faculty planned to balance both the Critical Thinking course content and the language needs of students. Questions at the start of the semester included inquiry into the faculty members’ curricular planning, the design of assignments, objectives and expectations, and the choice of materials. Mid-semester interviews concentrated on challenges and benefits related to the corequisite model and end-of-semester interviews addressed assessment of both content and language and questions to define how instructors thought about students’ college readiness and future academic trajectories. 
● Key themes were identified from the transcript and then revisited and refined to reflect our evolving understanding of LRI and faculty approaches to pedagogy within the corequisite course. Faculty members were also asked to submit copies of their syllabi, various essay assignments, and student work. 
What the researchers found
 
● Instructors’ academic and professional backgrounds shaped what they believed about their students’ development of academic language proficiency. 
● Language pedagogy was a reflection of how instructors conceived of academic language as a more expansive set of competencies: one that was inherently connected to writing, reading and critical thinking, and one that best positioned students to be successful in future classes. An essential piece of instructors’ language pedagogy was scaffolding. 
● The wider college context, with its singular focus on growing the corequisite model and reducing stand-alone developmental course work, was ever-present in the minds of the instructors as they thought about their students’ language use as well as their pedagogical practices. This is in line with the LRI framework, which emphasizes the importance of instructors’ knowledge about the broader context in which teaching and learning is happening. 
Things to consider
 
● The three major themes reveal the different types of knowledge instructors had about their students’ language needs and challenges, their pedagogy regarding the integration of language development and content learning, and the broader community college context. Together, these themes build a portrait of how instructors understand the complexity of blending the teaching of academic language support with disciplinary content in corequisite classes. 
● LRI provides a framework that can address many of the challenges faculty within the corequisite model face and what skill set instructors needs to be successful in meeting ELs’ needs. 
● Training that is focused on LRI can provide a framework to meet the needs of linguistically diverse students. 