
What this research was about and why it is important 
  For many learners of multiple foreign languages, the learning of a language other than English (LOTE) is almost always in parallel with the learning of English. While there has been research on learners’ motivation for different languages, most studies only focus on one language at a time and very few studies have considered a learner’s motivation for English and LOTEs simultaneously. The extent to which a learner’s motivation is language-specific (i.e., the same person having different motivations for different languages) or person-specific (i.e., the same person having similar motivations for different languages) remains unclear. To address this question, we surveyed 523 learners of multiple foreign languages in four cities in China. We found a high degree of language-specificity in motivation in general while there was also some degree of person-specificity. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited 523 students at four universities in China, who were concurrently as compulsory courses learning English and a LOTE (French/German) at the time of the survey. 
● We asked the participants to report their levels of four types of motivation, ranging from amotivation (e.g., not seeing any reasons for learning a language); to the least autonomous forms of motives (e.g., learning a language for external rewards); to the most autonomous forms of motives (e.g., learning a language because it is fun). 
● We identified groups of learners based on their motivational patterns (i.e., levels of different kinds of motives) and compared the groups in terms emotional experience and self-perceived competence in English and LOTEs. 
● We examined the connections between learners’ group membership for English and for LOTEs to see the overlaps between English and LOTEs motivation.    
What the researchers found
 
● There were four groups for English motivation (High Quantity, Moderate Quality, Poor Quality and Amotivated) and three groups for LOTEs motivation (High Quantity, Medial and Amotivated). 
● The four groups for English motivation were similar in prevalence (i.e., similar group size) but the three groups for LOTEs motivation differed considerably in prevalence. Specifically, there was a normative/majority group for LOTEs motivation, composed of 60% of the students. 
● The motivational profiles for English differed more in negative emotion whereas the motivational profiles for LOTEs differed more in positive emotion. 
● The best performing profile (High Quantity) was also the most likely shared profile by the same individual. 
● While most learners (84%) had different profiles for different languages, it was extremely rare (<2%) for the same individual to have profiles of opposite patterns (i.e., High Quantity in one language and Amotivated in another). 
Things to consider
 
● Overall, there was a high degree of language-specificity in motivation, as manifested in the number of profiles for each language, the prevalence of the profiles (i.e., group size), the high percentage (84%) of learners having different profiles for different languages, and the different profile associations with emotions. This suggests that for most learners, their language learning motivation is dependent on the target language. 
● In the meantime, there was also some degree of person-specificity in motivation, as 16% of the learners had similar profiles for different languages and most of them were in the best performing group. The low percentage (<2%) of learners with opposite profiles for English and LOTEs also suggests that the degree of language-specificity is constrained within a person.   
● The normative group for LOTEs motivation characterized by medium level of all types of motivation, including amotivation, means that making LOTEs compulsory is not sufficient to motivate most students. 
● The languages-specificity and person-specificity observed in this study calls for a multilingual pedagogy where teachers of different languages work together to tailor the learning experience by considering both language-specific and person-specific motivational characteristics.   