
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Being fluent in several foreign languages is a major educational goal in Europe. Yet, research has suggested that students attach more value to learning English compared to other foreign languages, which is believed to lead to lower interest for learning other languages. But is this also the case for students growing up with more than one home language (multilinguals)? The literature suggests that multilingual individuals are usually more interested in learning additional languages. Focusing on the context of a historically multilingual country (Switzerland), this study investigated whether students’ value beliefs (i.e., the beliefs about the value or importance of something) for English (a foreign language), French (a foreign but national language), and German (a native and national language) interact with each other over time and whether multilingual students show a different pattern in this development. Results indicated that students’ value beliefs for English can interfere with their value beliefs for German and French. In addition, both monolingual and multilingual students’ value beliefs for German and French declined slightly over time. 
What the researchers did
 
● 850 Swiss-German students (average age was 15 years at first measurement) were recruited from the German-speaking part of Switzerland. 
● In Grades 9, 10, and 11, students completed a paper-pencil questionnaire asking about their value beliefs in English, German, and French and about demographic information including whether they grew up with one, two or more home languages. 
● Students were categorized as being monolingual or multilingual if they reported growing up with two or more home languages. Of the 178 multilingual students, 60% grew up with German as their first native language, 5% reported another national language as their first native language (French, Italian, or Romansh) and 35 % had native proficiency in one of over 30 different languages (e.g., Albanian, Vietnamese etc.). 
● To see how students’ value beliefs for English, German, and French interacted with each other from Grades 9 to 11, and whether there were any differences between monolingual and multilingual students, a statistical technique was used to simultaneously estimate the development of value beliefs in the three language subjects over time (multivariate latent growth modelling). 
What the researchers found
 
● In Grade 9, both monolingual and multilingual students reported higher value beliefs in English compared to German and French. 
● Multilingual students reported higher value beliefs in French and English in Grade 9 compared to their monolingual peers, but they also seemed to experience steeper decreases in French and English value beliefs from Grades 9 to 11. 
● English value beliefs interfered with value beliefs for other languages: Students who had higher value beliefs in English in Grade 9 showed steeper decreases in value beliefs for French and German from Grades 9 to 11. However, when students’ value beliefs for English strongly increased over time so did their value beliefs in French and German. 
Things to consider
 
● Even in a historically multilingual country such as Switzerland that actively encourages multiple language learning, English seems to enjoy a special status among students. 
● Students growing up with more than one language at home may initially attach more value to learning additional foreign languages, but this does not seem to be enough to maintain high value beliefs over time. More research is needed to uncover multilingual students’ needs and expectations in language lessons. 
● The development of value beliefs for several language subjects seems to be interrelated. Therefore, more collaboration between language educators and language teachers is needed to find solutions to minimize the potentially growing imbalance between languages in educational settings and to promote interdisciplinary positive motivational development. For instance, language subjects could be represented less as separate curriculum units or language teachers could highlight connections and differences, and work in a more integrative way. 