
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Becoming and being a teacher is a complex process which involves a constant interaction between personal and contextual differences. This interaction, however, can be especially challenging to international preservice teachers because their experiences, beliefs, and expectations about becoming and being a teacher may often be in conflict with what is relevant to the profession in the host country. Such conflicts often result in tensions that are emotionally challenging and disempowering. If these tensions are not properly understood and handled, they can have a negative impact on the lives of preservice teachers and even cause them to doubt about having a teaching career. This study probed into such tensions experienced by three international students - Yina, Jennet, and Samir (pseudonyms) who came to Korea to study TESOL under a government-sponsored scholarship. The study analyzed the participants' lived experiences through their writing, interviews, drawings and other related documents. The study showed that their tensions had to do with institutional, discursive and regulatory forces residing in Korea. 
What the researchers did
 The researchers 
● conducted multiple interviews (n = 13) with the participants, collected their reflective journal entries (n = 12), admission essays (n = 3), and drawings (n = 3) about how they perceived themselves in the host country. 
● conducted consultations with two faculty members whose classes the participants had attended. 
● reviewed visa regulations and consulted two immigration office representatives. 
● analyzed the qualitative data and arrived at four overarching themes of tension. 
What the researchers found
 
● Language of instruction was as a source of tension in the participants reflections. Yina, Jennet, and Samir emphasized that they expected the TESOL program to be in English and having to attend courses in Korean caused them a great deal of tension. 
● Yina and Jennet experienced a tension of wanting to engage in practical training while actually being exposed to research-oriented training. However, this tension was not found in Samir's account. 
● All three participants experienced conflicts between their personal ideas of an English teacher and local beliefs overemphasizing native speaker standards. 
● Another important tension: denial of access to teaching despite relevant qualifications. All three participants questioned their legitimacy in light of existing legal regulations that disallowed them to teach English in Korea. 
Things to consider
 
● Teacher education programs are encouraged to consider English as a medium of instruction and maintain a better balance between theory and practice in their curricula to effectively assist international students' development as English teachers. 
● The study showed that local discourses of an English teacher unfairly overemphasized native speaker standards. It is thus important that action is taken by teacher educators to create counter discourses that help non-native preservice teachers reimagine themselves more positively. 
● There seems to be a flagrant systemic contradiction between two processes: (1) granting government scholarships to international students aspiring to be an English teacher and (2) denying them employment as an English teacher in Korea. It seems useful to critically consider this contradiction. 