
What this research was about and why it is important 
 About 1 in 10 children have trouble learning and using language. This can make it harder for them fit in socially, do well at school and later at work, and live their best life. Some young children who have language difficulties will catch up without needing extra help. We do not need to worry about giving these children extra language support. Other children will continue to have problems with language. It would help these children to get extra support at school or from a therapist. It is difficult for us to identify the young children who need extra language support. In this study, we tried to find questions we can ask parents that will best identify young children who will have long-term language problems. We would ask these questions when the child is between 8 months and 3 years of age. We used data from a group of children who took part in a language study. We asked their parents questions about how their child is learning language and growing and we tested the children’s language skills. We identified 2 sets of 7 questions that we can ask parents when their child is either 2 or 3 years old. These questions helped us correctly predict at least 73% of the time whether a child would have high or low language skills when they were 11 years old. 
What the researchers did
 
● We used data from a group of 839 children who took part in a language study from when they were 8 months old until they were teenagers. 
● When the children were 8, 12, 24 and 36 months old, their parents answered 1990 questions about the child and their family. 
● When the children were 11 years old, they did a language test. The children who got a low score are the children we want to identify so we can give them extra support. The children who got a high score do not need extra language support. 
● We used mathematical methods to find out which of those 1990 questions were the best at helping us predict whether a child would have a high or a low score on the language test at 11 years. 
What the researchers found
 
● We found 7 questions that we can ask parents when their child is 2 years old. These questions helped us correctly identify 73% of children with low language scores and 77% of children with high language scores at 11 years. 
● These questions are about words that the child says or understand, if they use sounds or words to get attention, how well they can use everyday objects (like a cup or brush), and how well they use their arms and legs. 
● We also found 7 questions that we can ask parents when their child is 3 years old. These questions helped us correctly identify 75% of children with low language scores and 85% of children with high language scores at 11 years. 
● These questions are about the child’s ability to make sentences, words that the child says, how much the parent plays with the child, and how well the parent is coping. 
● Asking questions when the child was 8 or 12 months old was not helpful in predicting which children would have a high or low language score at 11 years. 
Things to consider
 
● These sets of questions can give us an idea whether a 2- or 3-year-old child is likely to have long-term language problems and so need extra language support. 
● Because they are sets of 7 questions, a parent could answer these questions in just one minute. 
● These questions are not perfect: they will correctly identify if a child will have long-term language problems about 3 out of 4 times. They will be wrong for about a quarter of children. 
● This means that we cannot use these questions to confidently tell a parent if their 2- or 3-year-old child will have long-term language problems. 
● However, the questions might be helpful for researchers who want to identify children more likely to have long-term language problems, so that we can keep learning more about these children. 
● Next, we are planning to do the same study with a separate group of children to see if we get similar results. Material, open access article: https://osf.io/fpdzk/ 