
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This research demonstrates how three different readers understood the same text. Since different learners have different skills, background knowledge, and degrees of strategy use, it is important to understand individual processes that second language learners use when interpreting a text. In the study, participants and researchers came together on Zoom, where participants were shown screen shots from an authentic website about the cosmetics industry in France. They were asked to skim and scan the text and answer questions about who they thought were the authors, the intended audience, and the purpose of the text. They also answered questions about informational details in the text. Finally, they were asked to identify patterns in the text that contributed to the overall meanings. While doing these tasks, they were asked to say out loud everything they were thinking. Typically, in second language reading instruction, there is a focus on the facts and details that learners understand when interpreting texts that are expressed through language. Since most texts that we read, especially on the internet, are also expressed through other modes such as images, this research also looks at how readers integrate non-linguistic signs and use other kinds of knowledge besides just knowing French to understand a text. Finally, second language reading instruction often focuses on what is contained within a text, but does not always look at the social purposes and factors outside of the text that are important in how and why a text has been created. Findings from this study provide a fine-grained picture of the unique processes of three intermediate second language learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● We selected a text from the internet about a cultural topic that related to the chapter theme from the textbook. 
● We designed three reading phases, each with 3-4 multiple choice questions. 
● We invited participants to come to a virtual lab session on Zoom, skim and scan the text, answer the questions, and say out loud what they were thinking while reading. (This is called a “think aloud”.) 
● We recorded the sessions and transcribed the recordings. 
● We analyzed the processes and strategies the three participants used while reading, looking especially at three different domains of literacy: linguistic, cognitive, and sociocultural. 
What the researchers found
 
● We found three unique reading processes. o “Angela” relied mostly on the written language in the text and read word for word. She successfully used knowledge of other internet genres to form her interpretation. She understood words and sentences, but did not necessarily understand the comprehensive message(s) in the text. She often stated that she wasn’t sure of her interpretations. o “Kyle” relied mostly on background knowledge about industry and organizational practices. His interpretations strayed somewhat from the actual text. However, he recognized the social purpose of the text and saw the text to be talking to him personally. o “Andrea” relied mostly on the task questions, using these to skim and scan strategically. Her interpretations were coherent and plausible. She effectively linked her interpretations to the text. She took into account the visuals as well as the words. 
Things to consider
 
● Even if a reader struggles to decode the language of a text, they can still draw on other kinds of knowledge (for example, familiarity with a topic, or a type of text; interpretation of visual modes; and use of strategies) to understand what a text is trying to communicate. 
● Reading tasks can serve as productive points of orientation to a text, but work differently for different readers. 
● Think alouds can be a productive tool for multiliteracies research. 