
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This paper explored how two Emergent Bilingual (EB) students from refugee families made inferences during read-aloud sessions with more and less culturally relevant texts. Making inferences – figuring something out that is not said explicitly in the text – is done through a process of construction (activating potentially relevant information) and integration of information. We focused on background inferences that use both text information and prior knowledge to generate a better understanding of what is occurring in the story. Given that (a) learning to make inferences is critical for positive reading comprehension outcomes, and (b) culturally relevant texts have supported better inference making for older children who are bilingual or cultural minorities during independent reading, it is important to explore how young EB students from refugee families make background inferences across teacher read-alouds and discussions with more and less culturally relevant books.  
What the researchers did
 
● One EB teacher and two third-grade focal students from refugee families in a small-group EB literacy class read four picture books across 12 lessons. 
● The picture books ranged from more to less culturally relevant for the students. 
● All lessons were observed, video recorded, and transcribed. All participants were interviewed, and student artifacts were collected. 
● The researchers examined how background inferences are generated and how students’ linguistic and experiential knowledge might be mediating their construction-integration process. 
What the researchers found
 
● While students generally made more coherent inferences when the text was more culturally relevant, how they used text information and their background knowledge intersected with particular dimensions of cultural relevance ratings, such as experiences. 
● Students still tried to use text information and background knowledge to construct situation models when the book was less culturally relevant, but it was sometimes more difficult to construct a coherent situation model with these books due to the mismatch between the text information and the students’ background knowledge. 
● Sometimes students constructed situation models that did not align with their teacher’s situation model, likely due to the culturally situated nature of background knowledge. 
Things to consider
 
● Certain dimensions of cultural relevance, such as ‘experiences,’ may be most critical for students to access relevant background knowledge, so teachers should be sure to select texts that align with students’ culturally relevant experiences, and use these as part of supporting inference construction during book discussions. 
● Even when a book is culturally relevant for students from similar backgrounds, the aspects of the book’s cultural relevance vary by child, so teachers should get to know about their students’ heritage, family backgrounds, and personal experiences, and use this information to select potentially culturally relevant books. The culturally relevant text rubric can guide them in this process. Asking students to use the rubric to rate the books’ cultural relevance to gather feedback about their perspectives might be helpful as well. 
● To construct coherent background inferences, students use background knowledge that stemmed from different aspects of their complex and intersectional cultural identities. This underscores the importance of viewing children’s background knowledge not just as culturally situated, but also as situated within different aspects of their cultural experiences. 