
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The COVID-19 outbreak pushed teachers to conduct emergency online teaching with limited instructional technologies and underprepared curriculum design. Many language teachers were thus concerned about how to make the most of multimedia resources and social contexts for second language (L2) teaching and learning under this unprecedented educational situation. This study tracked two teachers’ reflections on their Chinese language instruction over the 2020 spring semester. By examining the dynamic relationships between their teaching strategies and the online educational environment, the study discovered some flexible instructional techniques and adaptive professional beliefs that may be resilient to an exploratory teaching mode as the pandemic continues. 
What the researchers did
 
● Used a three-level model of reflective teaching to analyze teachers’ reflections on the progress of emergency remote courses with respect to the evolvement of pandemic educational contexts. The model focused on technical operations, practical principles, and social considerations in classroom instruction. 
● Two female teachers who taught Chinese as an L2 in mainland China were interviewed monthly to recall their lived experiences of remote teaching in terms of o course schedules, o classroom activities and assessment, o perceptions about technology-enhanced instruction, o and expectations for future L2 education. 
● Special attention was paid to how the two teachers linked their teaching design and classroom contexts to the changes of the pandemic social environment as courses moved on. 
What the researchers found
 
● While both teachers applied instructional adjustments such as the decreased use of groups work and the increased use of offline assignments in COVID-19 remote teaching, the underlying reasons for those adjustments differed. The teachers had different views on their technology use in class, the objectives of emergency remote teaching, and their understanding of the pandemic impact on L2 education. 
● The two teachers both valued student-centered teaching approaches, but implemented them in different ways due to their different perspectives on scaffolding in L2 remote instruction and other external factors such as course level and class size. 
● The two teachers’ pedagogical beliefs and course content influenced to what extent they incorporated pandemic social contexts in L2 remote teaching. 
Things to consider
 
● What teachers did in emergency remote teaching was a combined reflection of their pedagogical beliefs, technology-mediated teaching skills, their understanding of the pandemic impact on L2 education, and other environmental elements such as student characteristics, course content, and class size. 
● There were no right or wrong answers to particular instructional techniques in COVID-19 remote teaching until they were evaluated in specific classroom contexts with evidence from multiple resources such as test results, student feedback, and teachers’ self-reflection. 
● Future research may track teachers for a longer period of time to see the impact of emergency remote teaching on face-to-face L2 instruction in the post-pandemic era. 