
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many researchers have started to investigate language learning engagement, that is, how learners actively participate in learning. Indeed, many studies have looked into the topic for example by focusing on what factors support engagement. At the same time, less is known about why learners might not engage in learning even if they are motivated and we would expect them to. This study explored this question from both the learners’ and teachers’ point of view. It found that there are a variety of reasons for why motivated learners might not participate in the classroom, including disengaging classroom activities and the challenging nature of language learning. These findings provide more understanding into the relationship and processes between learners’ motivation and engagement, but they can also be used as a basis for strategies to ensure that learners’ motivation is realised in action. 
What the researchers did
 
● They interviewed 18 learners and 21 teachers of various languages in England and in Finland about their perceptions of what might stop motivated learners from engaging in learning both inside and outside the classroom. 
● To make sure the learners participating were actually motivated in their language learning, they were invited to take part on the basis that they had specifically chosen to study the target language. In addition, learners were asked about their reasons for and interest in studying languages to further make sure they are motivated. 
● The analysis identified the themes emerging from the data collected and grouped them into the most commonly mentioned reasons for not engaging in learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● Six themes were identified as to what might prevent motivated learners from engaging in language learning: disengaging classroom activities and tasks, the challenging nature of language learning, low self-efficacy and confidence, competing priorities, influence of peers, and teacher and teaching style. 
● Overall, the findings of this study can be broadly divided into two: one relating directly to the classroom environment (disengaging classroom activities and tasks, influence of peers, and teacher and teaching style), and the other to the learners themselves (the challenging nature of language learning, competing priorities, and low confidence and self-efficacy). 
Things to consider
 
● The findings of this study indicate that there many factors that not only support engagement but can also prevent motivated learners from actively participating in learning. They also highlight the complex relationship between motivation and engagement, and caution against assuming that motivation always results in active participation in learning. 
● Many of these factors have previously been found to influence language learning motivation so it is interesting to note that these factors might also affect engagement for learners whose motivation is initially not affected. 
● One of the most interesting findings of the study concerns the role of English as a target language. The lack of challenge in the classroom activities preventing learners from engaging was only mentioned by teachers in Finland, where many learners use English in their life outside the classroom and may therefore feel they already know the language and disengage in class. This suggests that some factors preventing engagement for motivated learners might be specific to certain contexts and languages learned. Overall, the differences in barriers for engagement in various learning contexts deserve more systematic exploration in the future. 