
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Heritage speakers (HSs) of Spanish are early bilinguals who grow up speaking Spanish at home in a society with a different majority language. Not surprisingly, given their English dominance and relatively reduced opportunities to use Spanish outside the home, Spanish HSs often exhibit substantial variability (e.g., alternation between "target" and "non-target" forms) in their production of subjunctive mood, a set of verb endings in Spanish which is used to convey speakers' attitudes towards specific actions or events (e.g., wishes or possibilities). While many previous studies have found evidence of HSs' variability with subjunctive mood, few have identified how features of specific Spanish verbs might underlie this pattern. The present study contributes, therefore, by revealing that HSs' variability with subjunctive mood is significantly affected by regularity, that is, whether a verb's stem is the same for its subjunctive forms as for its indicative forms. By showing that HSs' use of subjunctive mood is both systematic, and yet also more variable with regular rather than irregular verbs, we offer a more nuanced depiction of what HSs really know about subjunctive mood morphology in Spanish. In doing so, we help deepen researchers' understanding of generational language change, a process that affects countless speakers (of Spanish and other languages) both in the United States and throughout the world. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recruited 42 second-generation HSs of Spanish and 10 first-generation, Spanish-dominant controls. All fifty-two participants were university students in the United States at the time of the study. 
● Participants responded to an oral sentence completion task, which was designed to elicit the production of Spanish verbal morphology in both (a) contexts where subjunctive mood is expected (e.g., Quiero que…'I want that…') and (b) contexts where indicative mood is expected (e.g., main clauses). 
● The researchers calculated participants' likelihood of producing subjunctive mood—with both regular and irregular verbs—in subjunctive and indicative contexts. Effects of group and proficiency were also analyzed. 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants in both groups produced more subjunctive forms in subjunctive-expected contexts than in indicative-expected contexts, thereby showing clear sensitivity to the distribution of subjunctive in Spanish. 
● Unlike the controls, the HSs produced both subjunctive and indicative mood when subjunctive was expected. HSs who scored lower on a standard Spanish proficiency test were more likely to exhibit this pattern. 
● Across proficiency levels, HSs' variability was greater with regular verbs than with irregular verbs. 
Things to consider
 
● HSs may produce more subjunctive with irregular verbs either because these verbs are more perceptually salient or because they are stored differently in the mind and are therefore easier to access in speech. 
● More research is needed to determine whether regularity also affects HSs' recognition of subjunctive mood. 