
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Researchers use the term interactional competence to refer to second language (L2) users’ ability to perform actions through language (for example to request something, to complain about something, to promise something etc.) and are interested in understanding how L2 users develop this interactional competence. The study investigated an L2 speaker's (Anna) use and learning of the Icelandic auxiliary verb ætla in her everyday conversations in Icelandic. The study traced the specific learning trajectories for different functions of ætla and documented Anna’s learning in terms of a developing interactional competence in the form of the ability to accomplish an increasing variety of social actions using ætla. Importantly, the study showed that social action is a primary driving force for L2 learning. This means that L2 learning is crucially dependent on participation in everyday talk and that classroom practices will benefit from bringing in more centrally the leaners‘ needs and experiences from non-classroom contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● We collected audio recordings from Anna's everyday life (30 minutes a week over the course of a year), private conversations with friends as well as interactions in service encounters. 
● The recordings were transcribed in accordance with conversation analytic conventions, allowing for attention to microanalytic detail in the organization of social interaction. This implies, among other things, transcription of all audible sound, pause measurement, and overlapping talk.  
● We then traced ætla in the transcribed data to gain an overview of all instances of use and to study Anna‘s development in detail. 
What the researchers found
 
● Anna used ætla to make requests in service encounters, account for her past or current behavior by referring to an imminent or future intention, share news and plans, and make requests for information and confirmation. 
● Anna’s learning starts from making requests in service encounters. She then learns ætla as a means to account for her behavior by referring to an imminent or future intention, to make requests for information and confirmation and to share news and plans. 
● As she learns to accomplish new actions with ætla the data reveals increasing diversity (e.g., different pronouns in subject position, different main verbs). 
Things to consider
 
● Anna’s learning trajectory suggests a clear link between the accomplishment of action and the learning of linguistic items. 
● Anna learns to use the relevant and appropriate language based on usage, experience and interactional needs. 
● In sum, the data support assumptions about L2 learning as they are described and theorized in usage-based and conversation analytic approaches to the study of L2 learning. 
● The study promotes an interactionally rooted approach to L2 teaching and the use of relevant and appropriate exemplars from naturally occurring interactions. 