
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Existing studies have shown that second language (L2) teachers’ engagement with reading research and in doing research is often limited, which contributes to widening the gap between research and teachers’ teaching practice. What remains unexamined, and what we argue to be the deeper cause of the research–practice divide, is teachers’ various levels of cognition and action, or their mindset, toward research. To address this issue, the present study sought to implement an inquiry-based learning component in an L2 teacher education (TE) course on instructed second language acquisition (ISLA). One of the main course goals was to nurture teacher learners’ research mindset. Findings revealed that the inquiry-based course activities enabled the teacher learners to adopt a stronger research mindset, which was likely to help them maintain a favourable relationship with research. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 130 pre- and in-service L2 teachers of various nationalities, all of whom participated in the focal ISLA course which was part of a master of applied linguistics program at an Australian university. 
● We designed the learning modules following a structured inquiry model: an initial ISLA-related question was set up for each topic and the teacher learners were guided to find the answer to this question through completing weekly reading assignments, engaging in peer discussion, and tackling problem-solving tasks. 
● The highlight of the course was an open-inquiry assignment called the mini research project (MRP). The teacher learners chose one relevant ISLA topic and conducted a small-scale study under our guidance. 
● To investigate the impact of the course on teacher learners’ research mindset, we collected data from a precourse questionnaire, teacher learners’ reflections after completing the MRP, and end-of-course focus group interviews. 
What the researchers found
 
● Prior to the focal ISLA course, the teacher learners presumably did not possess an active research mindset; they were generally aware of the benefits of research for practice, but could not pinpoint specifically what those benefits could be. 
● The inquiry-based course activities enabled the teacher learners to adopt a stronger research mindset. 
● They were able to articulate the importance of research for teaching practice and gained firsthand experience as well as increased confidence in conducting research. 
● They showed inclination toward research-informed teaching and were keen to maintain their newly established favourable relationship with research. 
● However, they acknowledged concerns about their future actual research engagement, mostly due to time constraint and the lack of institutional support. 
● The teacher learners also reported pressure when conducting the MRP due to tight time frames and the lack of access to research sites. 
Things to consider
 
● A research mindset is crucial to motivate L2 teachers to engage in and maintain their dialogue with researchers within and beyond TE programs. 
● The discovery and experiential principles of inquiry-based learning were conducive to strengthening the teacher learners’ research mindset. 
● The concept of research mindset could be incorporated into language TE courses, in which nurturing a research mindset is purposefully set as one of the course objectives. 
● Amendments regarding preparation for accessing research sites and spacing out research engagement activities may be necessary. 
● Collaborative, orchestral, and continued efforts from all stakeholders—especially from institutions and employers—are needed to more effectively and comprehensively address the research-practice gap. 