
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Applied linguistics scholars have identified a connection between creativity (innovation) and textbook development through reflective accounts of textbook authorship, proposals for textbook use, and applications of creativity theories to teaching materials. This study took a different approach by investigating the role that creativity played in the ongoing production of an English language teaching (ELT) coursebook. By tracking in-progress development of the book and repeatedly reading through the data collected to find prominent analytical themes, the researcher identified various constraints associated with commercial textbook projects and how a highly skilled ELT textbook author who wrote the publications for a living dealt with these complexities. Creativity could be perceived in the author’s written product and in her writing processes as she devoted attention to teaching, learning, publishing, and textbook usability matters. This study makes an empirical contribution to the research literature by shedding light on how creativity is demonstrated during unfolding textbook production, particularly in light of commercial publishing considerations, and frames an author’s writing efforts relative to publishing conditions rather than in opposition to them. What the researcher did 
● The study used data collected from one highly skilled textbook author, TW, as she developed an ELT coursebook for secondary school students in a specific African country. 
● When data collection began, TW had spent eight years working as a textbook writer for a global publishing company. She had also worked for 32 years as an English language teacher and teacher trainer. 
● Data for the study came mainly from asking TW to think aloud as she wrote textbook chapters; the researcher also took field notes to detail writing sessions. Additionally, the investigator interviewed TW before and after writing sessions to ask about her textbook project and composing processes, and the participant supplied background information on her textbook project by completing one diary entry.  
● The researcher transcribed the data gathered into text and repeatedly read through the transcripts to ascertain recurrent and prominent themes for purposes of analysis. What the researcher found 
● TW avoided publication censorship by incorporating cross-curricular material into her book’s chapters, and she thoroughly edited textbook content to make it user-friendly. 
● The participant used function items on the English language syllabus to negotiate taboo topic restrictions and took into consideration textbook users’ views about appropriateness while devising innovative material for chapters. 
● The author demonstrated fortitude when faced with challenges in order to sustain textbook progress and her career. 
● She purposefully integrated textbook material to appeal to target readers and increase book sales. 
● In addition, TW brainstormed ideas for the textbook and planned how to implement them in anticipation of future writing sessions to organize her creative ideas and make headway on her textbook. 
Things to consider
 
● This study reveals the effects of creativity on the product and processes of textbook development. 
● It also provides insight into the complex nature of commercial textbook production and indicates how an author who earned a living through textbook writing addressed the challenging aspects of her profession.  
● The research provides a view of how a textbook is developed in practice, highlighting the usefulness of thinking-aloud-while-writing as a means of investigating ongoing materials production, and it encourages teachers to use the technique to explore their own materials-writing conditions. 
● Although the study concentrated on textbook development by using data collected from an author, textbook users’ reactions to the product of a writer’s efforts might also be explored in future research. 
● To possibly gain another perspective, future studies might also look at the effects of creativity on textbook packages comprised of teacher’s books and student’s books. 