
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This research explores secondary school students’ investment in their language learning after having graduated from one of four bilingual (also termed Content and Language Integrated Language (CLIL)) primary school programs in New South Wales, Australia. Analysis of focus group data shows the different study pathways pursued by a selection of students and illustrates whether and how students continue with language learning from their bilingual primary program, how they may have invested in their language learning, and how this investment may have assisted with their identity development and related continuity with language study. Investment (individual and community) impacts learners’ identity development in the additional language, and thereby impacts choices made to continue or cease language learning. Particularly when challenges are encountered in the progression of language learning through the year levels and as learners progress from primary to secondary school. 
What the researchers did
 
● Focus groups of secondary school students who had graduated from the primary CLIL programs were set up in 5 schools. 
● Focus group members were asked to describe their learning of languages following a set of guiding questions. 
● Each member of the focus groups was asked to depict the languages in their lives in a visual representation to show how they connect with all languages that are meaningful to them. 
● Focus group members then provided verbal descriptions of what they drew. 
● The researchers read the transcribed descriptions and coded the drawings and descriptions thematically, using the themes/labels given by the students. 
● Students’ drawings were reduced to a series of thematic tags. Tags related to (i) word labels, (ii) image labels, or (iii) word-plus-image labels, then further sub-categorised into descriptors, such as building, person, animal, to name a few. 
● All data was grouped to allow descriptive comments about the students’ perceptions of the school language programs. 
What the researchers found
 
● Across the five schools three types of language program can be seen: 
● start-again language programs, where the CLIL primary program graduates join with new classmates from other primary schools to begin learning a language at secondary school with no assumed prior knowledge; 
● taster language programs in Year 7, the first year of secondary school, a ‘taste’ – through 6 - 10 week modules – of four to six languages, followed by a compulsory year in Year 8 of one of those languages (followed by electives for Years 9, 10, 11 and 12); 
● advanced-standing classes for the CLIL primary program graduates, which move on from the prior learning from the primary school and progress at a faster pace than other language classes in the school. 
● Students demonstrated an investment in their language learning when they linked their language learning to home and life-outside-school. 
● The students’ statements sometimes emphasised appreciation of the primary language learning experience building to secondary language learning, with the continuation of language learning being a character-building exercise. 
● ‘Linking multiple languages’ that students have in their repertoires could be a benefit worth investing in. 
Things to consider
 
● In spite of the challenges which exist because of the varied secondary school programs, students indicated their investment when indicating an intent to continue their language through to matriculation. Only time will tell whether this intent can be maintained over the longer term. It would be valuable to re-visit these students in their final two years of school to find out how/whether they maintained this dedication. 