
What this research was about and why it is important 
 It is not unusual to hear language teachers complain about learners’ limited vocabulary in speaking and writing. Previous research has shown that foreign language learners understand many more words than they can use, and they often have difficulty in developing their productive vocabulary skills. This study compared four types of learning activities under different repetition conditions to see their effects on helping learners produce the words they know receptively. The study showed that some forms of activities were more effective than others, especially when they were repeated several times. 
What the researchers did
 
● The learners were 146 students of English as a foreign language, aged 17-19 years, all native speakers of Chinese. They were enrolled in four intact English classes at a university located in eastern China. 
● The classes were randomly assigned to one of the four learning tasks, i.e., multiple-choice, gap-filling, sentence translation, and sentence writing. The learners completed over 12 weeks a series of 12 vocabulary exercises presented in one of the above forms. 
● The 12 exercises focused on 18 target words that were evenly divided into three sets, which were repeated 2, 4 and 6 times respectively. Each exercise contained 6 questions that corresponded to one set of targets. 
● To test whether the learners could use the words, they were given three tests corresponding to the three word sets, in which they filled in the sentence gap with the translation of the underlined part of an equivalent Chinese sentence. The learners took the test two weeks after the final repetition of the word set. 
● The learners’ responses were first scored in terms of the total number of recalled targets, and then in terms of accuracy of the use of the target words, including spelling, number (singular/plural), collocates, etc. 
What the researchers found
 For task type 
● The learners who did sentence translation or sentence writing (productive tasks) produced more target words and used the words more accurately than those who did multiple-choice or gap-filling (receptive tasks). Neither the difference within the productive tasks nor that within the receptive tasks was obvious. 
● On the whole, the differences among task groups became greater with increasing repetitions—suggesting that some learning activities had bigger advantage over others when they were repeated several times. For repetition 
● All learners recalled more target words and used the words more accurately when the target words were repeated four times than when they were repeated twice, irrespective of what tasks the learners did. 
● When the repetition was increased from four to six times, however, only three groups recalled more target words, and no group made an obvious improvement on the accuracy of using the words—suggesting that the effect of repetition started to decline after the first several retrievals. 
Things to consider
 
● This study revealed that productive learning activities were more effective in facilitating productive mastery of receptively known words, and some forms of productive tasks worked better than others. As the learners came from the same language background, more research is needed to find out if these findings are transferable to learners of other language backgrounds. 
● This study showed that repetition played a major role in promoting productive mastery of known words, but the repetition effects started declining after a small number of retrievals. It highlighted on the one hand the importance of multiple and spaced retrievals of the less frequently used words, and reminded us at the same time that the general view “more is better” may not always hold true for word learning. 