
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examined motivations of multilingual teachers teaching Chinese abroad using the Factors Influencing Teaching Choice (FIT) model and a combination of quantitative and qualitative measures (Q methodology). This study revealed the similarities and differences among major types of motivation group and their main contributing factors. Findings of this study offered insights for the international Chinese education and CFL teacher’s career development. 
What the researchers did
 
● 18 multilingual Chinese as a Foreign Language (CFL) teachers who were teaching Chinese in Europe, North America, and Australia were recruited through the authors’ personal contacts and snowball sampling. 
● Participants completed a 40-statement sorting task online that was designed to rate their different motivations. 
● A statistical analysis (factor analysis using PQ method) was done to organize participants into different major types. 
● Additional data were collected by follow-up, semi-structured phone interviews. The interviews were recorded, transcribed, and then thematic analysis was used to explore the transcription data using NVivo 12. 
What the researchers found
 
● 4 major motivation types were identified: o Self-devotion and social contribution type –  teachers in this category showed strong motives based on cultural and social values and a great sense of national pride and responsibility to promote the Chinese language and culture. o Personal utility type – teachers in this were mostly concerned with personal utility values, but they are not receiving high economic rewards or social respect. For them, engaging in Chinese teaching is more a fallback job. o Personal interest+ type – teachers in this category presented motivations that combined personal interests and individual abilities, and they emphasized the personal pleasure and self-satisfaction the teaching profession brought to them. o Personal pursuit and immigration path type – teachers in this category were motivated mainly for the enriching intercultural experience and protentional immigration path. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings highlight the importance of considering and maintaining CFL teachers’ motivation from different aspects for CFL teachers, institutions, and policymakers. 
● Multilingual CFL teachers’ motivation is a complex and ecological system. Every type of motivation is noteworthy, especially these core motivations that help teachers to maintain and enhance their career pursuit. 
● Further study on multilingual CFL teachers in less developed regions would offer more comprehensive understanding to their motivations.  