
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Although second language (L2) pragmatics is becoming increasingly important in classroom settings, there may be doubts about the best way to incorporate it during English lessons, especially with young children. In fact, there is still very little research on L2 pragmatics in primary education. In this study, the researcher conducted a classroom-based study to investigate the teachability of L2 requests with 12/13-year-old English as a Foreign Language (EFL) primary students following concept-based instruction in Norway. The researcher wanted to examine whether learners’ language resources increased after the instruction as well as if learners varied their choice of request according to contextual features such as the familiarity and age of the interlocutor. Results indicated the instruction was beneficial as there was pragmatic development from before the teaching to after the teaching. 
What the researchers did
 
● 51 EFL learners aged between 12-13 from 7th grade from the same primary school participated in this study. They belonged to two different intact classes. Their English proficiency level was between A2-B1 according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). The instruction lasted for four hours in total. 
● To foster agency (i.e., the ability to make informed choices in communication), the instruction had three main aims. The first aim was to introduce the pragmalinguistic dimension (i.e., the language resources that may be employed in communication) of requests, e.g., the directness level (direct: close the window; conventionally indirect and: Could you…?; hints: It is cold here), by providing labels and definitions for the target strategies. The second aim was to raise awareness of the sociopragmatic dimension (i.e., how the context and situation, such as, where you are or who you are speaking to, may influence language choices). Finally, the third aim was to raise awareness of individual differences in perceptions of appropriateness. 
● 
● During the first sessions, request directness levels were introduced as well as other pragmalinguistic strategies (e.g., giving reasons, compliments or focusing on address terms). For example, learners were asked to watch two videos and to pay attention to the requests that appeared. Then, they were asked to classify them in a continuum according to their directness level. Finally, learners completed one activity in pairs in which they had to change the directness of some requests (e.g., from hint to direct). In later sessions, the sociopragmatic dimension was introduced. For example, the learners were presented with decontextualized requests and asked to identify the pragmalinguistics features of the request and their directness level. Then, for each request, two images of contrasting situations appeared to provide the learners with the contextual information. The learners were then asked what they thought about the language use for each situation, thus, raising awareness of the interplay between the pragmalinguistic and sociopragmatic dimensions. In order to collect the data, the learners were divided into groups of 4-5 and watched videos that included request situations. For each request situation in the videos, the learners were asked what they thought the characters would say. The data collection followed a pre-, post-, delayed post-test design. 
● 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners increased their pragmalinguistic repertoire after the instruction. There was a decrease in the use of the modal verb can and an increase in the use of may and could. 
● Learners’ use of grounders (when learners provide reasons for their requests: Mum, I really like that kite. Can I get it, please?) or sweeteners (when learners value the hearer’s ability: You could win Masterchef with this soup. Can I get some more?) increased from before the teaching to after the teaching. 
● As for the sociopragmatic variable, learners requested differently according to the interlocutor’s familiarity and age. For example, with friends, learners increased the use of direct requests. 
Things to consider
 
● Learners expanded their pragmalinguistic repertoire, for instance, by adopting a wider range of modal verbs to make requests. 
● Learners showed a conscious control on the different types of requests as they became more aware of the importance of the context and the interlocutor. 
● Results suggest that L2 pragmatic instruction can start in primary education, without the need to wait until learners are older and/or more proficient in the L2. 