
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers often wonder how grammar should be taught in the language classroom. This study explored students’ learning after participation in a PACE approach to grammar instruction in which the teacher Presented a text, drew students’ Attention to a grammar form in the text, Co-constructed an explanation of the form with students in both small groups and as a whole class, and engaged students in Extension tasks to use the form. The study showed that although students did not develop fully accurate explanations of the form in small groups, whole-class discussions promoted their understanding and use of the form. Students were able to draw upon their existing knowledge and linguistic terminology to create accessible grammar explanations. 
What the researchers did
 
● Over three days of instruction, a teacher used a PACE approach to teach U.S. high school students studying Spanish the form and function of se in Spanish, which can be used to make a sentence impersonal, passive, or inchoative (i.e., a “spontaneous” event without external cause). 
● The researchers administered a picture description task before the three days of instruction, immediately after, and again six weeks later. 
● During each day of instruction, small group interaction and whole-class instruction was recorded and recordings were later transcribed. 
● The researchers analyzed changes in two focal participants’ ability to explain and use se. 
● The researchers also analyzed which parts of the teacher’s instruction seemed to bring about these changes. 
What the researchers found
 
● Small-group work allowed students to prepare ideas, connect to prior knowledge, and practice use of the grammar form before whole-class discussions. 
● Whole-group work provided more opportunities for the teacher to mediate participants’ metalinguistic awareness and use, although she struggled with the in-the-moment management of instructional conversations. 
● Participants came up with useful explanations of the form that were not always linguistically accurate. 
● Participants achieved varied levels of metalinguistic awareness and use as a result of the intervention. 
Things to consider
 
● There is no one correct approach to grammar instruction, but teachers might consider a hybrid approach in which students first co-construct a grammar explanation with the teacher before examining an explicit representation of the grammatical concept.  
● Such a hybrid approach would require a repository of conceptual representations created by linguists to support teachers and students. 