
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has demonstrated that high-stakes exams, such as those needed to graduate from high school, have had negative effects on English language learners and their teachers. Exams may constrain teachers’ agency by encouraging them to “teach to the test”, while students’ aspirations may be harmed due to their inability to pass exams. This study draws on ethnographic data gathered among a group of students and teachers in a secondary school located in New York State (US). While data provides further evidence that high-stakes exams have negative effects on English learners, this research also uncovered the ways which teachers and their students negotiate the power of exams and thus act as practitioners of educational policy. These findings are important for policymakers to fully understand the impacts of high-stakes exams and educational policy on English learners as well as the ways in which teachers and students enact agency in classroom settings. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study relied on ethnographic methodologies to better understand the effects of high-stakes exams on 33 English learners, six of their teachers, and two school administrators. 
● Approximately half of the student participants were seniors in high school, while the remaining half had recently graduated high school or left to pursue work. All students were first-generation immigrants or refugees who had migrated to the U.S. within the last five years. 
● The researcher conducted classrooms observations with English learners for one year and also acted as a teaching aide and after-school tutor to better understand the effects of high-stakes exams and the ways tests impact English learners. 
● The researcher also conducted semi-structured interviews lasting approximately 45-70 minutes with each participant. 
● Data consisted of ethnographic fieldnotes written during observations and expanded into fuller narratives at the end of each fieldwork session as well as interview transcripts which were transcribed and coded using qualitative software. 
What the researchers found
 
● This study provided evidence of the constraining effects of New York State’s graduation exams on English learners and their teachers. For instance, teachers felt pressured to only teach students content that would be covered on the exam and also focused more attention on students who were close to passing the exams. This meant that topics outside of the test content and students who were seen as too far behind to pass the exams were ignored. 
● Students also recognized the importance of the exam and encouraged their teachers to relate all curricular material to the tests they would be taking. Many students also described how the challenges of the tests had negative impacts on their educational aspirations and hopes for the future. 
● These data show how the tests – and policies which extended their power – had strong effects English learners and their teachers. In short, classrooms became places which were designed primarily to prepare students for the exams, thereby supplanting other purposes for education such as critical consciousness or civic development. 
● Findings highlighted the agency of students and teachers who critiqued the fairness of the exams and their accuracy to measure English learners’ academic abilities. In many cases, teachers did not simply comply with the state-mandated exams but instead sought to carve out time in classroom to engage in critical approaches to learning. 
Things to consider
 
● This project illustrated the power and presence of high-stakes exams on English learners while highlighting the avenues of agency taken by educators and students who reworked aspects of educational policy through classroom practice. 
● These findings show that even powerful ideologies and policies are subject to transformation at the hands of agents and that agency can be expressed in a variety of ways over time. 
● Such impacts are connected to the wider history of standardized tests which have been used to stigmatize and stratify members of lower classes, people of color, and immigrant groups throughout the 20th century. 
● Because educational attainment is closely tied to wages, employment, and social mobility, high-stakes exams can harm the social mobility and integration of English learners. 