
What this research was about and why it is important 
 When undergraduate students study language abroad, they learn about local cultures and develop their own identities as they also study the second language. Although previous research in non-study abroad contexts has illustrated the linguistic, intercultural, and identity benefits for designing digital multimedia projects like video blogs, little is known about how students may leverage such projects while studying abroad. This study examined how seven American university students learned French in Paris while designing digital video blogs and reflections. Student course projects were collected and analyzed in addition to interviews with each of the participants. Findings illustrated that the video projects helped students understand their own language use, reflect on cultural practices and stereotypes, and develop identities as legitimate multilingual designers. What the researcher did 
● Learners were 7 American students aged between 19-24 and studying French at a six-week immersion program in Paris, France. 
● All learners spoke English and two learners had home languages of Spanish and Arabic, respectively. 
● Learners took two third-year French courses during the program, in which they completed a total of 21 video blogs, 14 blogs, 21 reflective videos, and 7 final projects. All projects were multimodal, or used images, text, sound, voice, video, gifs, and/or emojis to design meaning. 
● Projects were downloaded at the end of the term. Each learner was also interviewed and was asked to talk about experiences designing the projects, learning French, and living abroad. 
● Projects and interviews were analyzed by observing recurring patterns within and across the different types of projects as related to language learning, cultural learning, and identity development. What the researcher found 
● Participants grew to understand their language learning process by designing multimedia projects to set goals for language learning. They further shared their learning processes with peer and online audiences. 
● Learners problematized stereotypic views of the French culture and language in favor of more nuanced cultural comparisons expressed through multimedia. Learners also developed identities as emerging multilinguals. 
● In their projects, learners created individualized styles that helped them to teach their audiences of other French learners. Learners additionally positioned themselves as legitimate users of French and of digital video technologies. 
Things to consider
 
● This study demonstrated the specific ways that designing multimodal projects channeled reflections on language learning. Future studies should continue to examine how educators can implement such projects. 
● In this study, students designed digital projects and navigated social media, gifs, text, music, and images to dynamize their own cultural views. More research is needed to understand how study abroad university students integrate their identities into projects that incorporate technology and social media. 