
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second language learners often rely on nonverbal cues in order to compensate for their lack of knowledge and skills when listening to a text. For classroom learners, the main locus of their attention is their teacher; thus, it is crucial to explore how the visibility of their gestures and faces, including lip movements, contributes to listening comprehension. Moreover, how nonverbal behaviors are used in listening could depend on how easy or difficult learners feel the text is as well as whether they know beforehand what questions will be asked. Therefore, this study examined how different modalities (body, face, audio), levels of difficulty of materials, learner proficiency, and the number of listening attempts influenced listening comprehension levels. Learners of English of two proficiency levels (high and low) worked on six listening tasks in English (three modalities * two difficulties) twice for each, with or without knowing the questions. Their modality preferences were also examined. The results showed that neither modalities or modality preferences had no influence on listening comprehension. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 33 high (CEFR: B2 or C1) and 22 low (CEFR: A1 or A2) proficient learners of English as a foreign language residing in Japan, aged between 18-29. 
● Participants worked on six English texts, combining two difficulties (easy and hard) and three modalities: o body – the speaker’s upper half of body was visible o face – close up view o audio only 
● Participants either watched a video of body or that of face, or listened to an audio, without knowing the questions. Then, they worked on six comprehension questions. Knowing the questions, participants worked on the same text and the same questions again. 
● Participants were asked about their modality of preference. 
What the researchers found
 
● Scores of the high proficiency group were higher than those of the low proficiency group. 
● Scores of the easy texts were higher than those of the hard texts. 
● Scores of the second attempt were higher than those of the first attempt. 
● The modality of listening had no influence on their listening performance. 
● For the high proficiency group, the score difference between the easy and the hard texts was larger at the second attempt than at the first attempt. 
● Participants generally preferred watching the whole body, followed by watching the face, and then listening only. 
● The high proficiency group showed more variations of modality preference than the low proficiency group. 
● Participants’ modality preference had no influence on their listening performance. 
Things to consider
 
● This study indicates that observing speaker’s body and face does not facilitate listening comprehension in a foreign language. 
● Adding visual information does not seem to automatically improve listening comprehension for the following possible reasons: o If the text is too easy, learners are able to understand the contents only through audio. Then, visual information is unnecessary. o If the text is too difficult, learners are unable to afford to use visual information while watching videos, and instead focus on auditory information. o Even if the text difficulty is appropriate, gestures that do not represent the concrete notions of accompanying contents are unhelpful. 
● Watching lip movements can help learners identify words that they cannot recognize only through audio. However, they do not facilitate inferring the meanings of unfamiliar words. 
● Thus, to have visual information contribute to enhancing listening comprehensibility, the text difficulty should be appropriate and gestures that represent the concrete notions should be performed. 