
What this research was about and why it is important 
 With the advent of the sociocultural turn in applied linguistics and teacher education, scholars have convincingly argued that tools (physical and symbolic) play an important role in learning to teach. Notwithstanding this, there is an important lack of research addressing how teachers relate to the tools of their profession, that is, language teaching materials, and more specifically, how they learn to write their own. Addressing this gap, this study explores how preservice teachers of English as a Foreign Language in Chile learn to write their own materials as required by the current teacher education standards presented by the Chilean Ministry of Education. Through qualitative data from preservice teachers, their teacher educators, and school mentors, the study shows that the preservice teachers’ design of materials was predominantly mediated by published coursebooks rather than their own knowledge of teaching and learning English or knowledge about the specific groups of students that they were teaching. The study also shows how this line of thinking is heightened by a tension between the preservice teachers’ agency and the way in which textbooks are by their mentors, who frequently favor using coursebooks rather than designing materials. Importantly, the study shows that some teacher educators also tend to follow similar rationales, instilling this on the preservice teachers willingly or unwillingly. 
What the researchers did
 
● Two stimulated recall interviews were conducted with eight preservice teachers during their school-placements. To do this, materials designed by the preservice teachers were used to elicit the thoughts underpinning their design. Semi-structured interviews were used with the preservice teachers, teacher educators, and school mentors. Six preservice teachers also participated in a focus group. Institutional documents were also used as data. 
● Thematic analysis (identification of patterns) was used to analyze the data. 
● Activity theory was used as a theoretical framework to map the sociocultural factors influencing the design of materials, and the tensions emerging during the process. Activity theory is explains how learners might operate and navigate activity during a social learning process. 
What the researchers found
 
● The study shows how ‘teaching English as teaching the textbook’ took a spearheading role in the design of materials by the preservice teachers. 
● The study also shows that the way in which mentor teachers used published coursebooks in the schools inhibited the preservice teachers’ design of materials. 
● Some mentor teachers actively discouraged the design of materials by the preservice teachers, and pushed them to rely more on coursebooks. 
● Some teacher educators described coursebooks as artefacts of inherent language teaching authority, which affected the preservice teachers’ experience learning English during the teacher education program. 
Things to consider
 The study has a number of implications for language teacher education: 
● There is an important need to evaluate how published coursebooks can affect the learning of teaching by preservice teachers in order to prevent these materials from undermining their pedagogical agency. 
● Evaluating the effect of coursebooks is particularly important in contexts where preservice teachers have to learn English, as coursebooks may affect their language learning experience, and later their practice of teaching. 
● The findings suggest that textbooks are often attributed more language teaching authority than preservice teachers, schoolteachers, and sometimes even teacher educators. 
● The findings confirm the disconnect between teacher education institutions and schools, and that materials are sometimes at the heart of this problem. 
● More research needs to be conducted on how preservice teachers relate to the tools of their profession. This research has the potential to shed light on language teaching materials, teacher education, and language teaching in general. 