
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many students, educators, and organizations are working to make language education more inclusive of people of all genders. The ethical reasons for doing this have been made clear. However, very little research has addressed what challenges and opportunities gender-just language education poses for student linguistic outcomes. Without this data, unsubstantiated claims that teaching trans knowledges and linguistic practices creates unresolvable confusion, increases errors, and impedes language learning and use have been allowed to persist unchecked. This article has come to refute this anecdotal speculation by analyzing linguistic accuracy and complexity in assignment data from 112 US undergraduate students who were each enrolled in one of three iterations of an intermediate French course. These course iterations varied in whether and when gender-just pedagogies were introduced. Results indicated that gender-just language pedagogies contribute to significantly lower error rates, without any difference in the length of utterances students produce. In keeping, this study provides evidence of the clear benefit of an early-and-often approach to gender justice in the language classroom and makes clear that that learning about trans knowledges and linguistic practices does not create unresolvable confusion, but rather decreases errors and positively contributes to language learning and use. 
What the researchers did
 
● 112 US undergraduates enrolled in one of three iterations of an intermediate French course agreed to have their assignments studied. 
● The six assignments studied were the same across all versions of the course (i.e., matched and moderately scripted). 
● The three iterations of the course varied only in their treatment of gender-just language pedagogies: In the first, trans knowledges and linguistic practices were not treated during the 15-week study. In the second, they were regularly treated from mid-semester forward. In the third, they were regularly treated from the first day forward. 
● The data were then iteratively coded and analyzed by the author and a second co-researcher until consensus was reached. Specifically, grammatical errors were counted and labeled by type. Then, a mean error rate was calculated (i.e., the number of errors on the assignment divided by the number of words) for each student on each assignment. 
● Average words per sentence was also calculated for each student on each assignment, as a measure of complexity. 
● To analyze the patterning of these results, full factorial repeated measures ANOVAs were used. 
● This allowed the researcher to determine what, if any, observable relationship exists between gender-just language education (e.g., including trans knowledges and linguistic practices) and student language development. 
What the researchers found
 
● Gender-just language education did not have any negative influence on students developing grammatical accuracy or on the complexity of the language they produced. To the contrary, it contributed to overall student linguistic competence development. Students who learned about trans knowledges and linguistic practices made fewer errors than those who did not, without any difference in the complexity of their utterances. 
● Further, students who experienced gender-just language education made fewer errors on a broader range of forms and structures (e.g., contractions, orthography, gender-inflected pronouns, and noun class agreement). Longer exposure to gender-just language education further expanded the forms and structures on which students demonstrated greater accuracy to include many that tend to be a source of challenges even at the highest levels (e.g., number, verb tense, mood). 
Things to consider
 
● More ethical teaching and learning can lead to better student outcomes. This includes creating space for complexity in how gender is taken up in and through language. 
● Circulating discourses about competing demands and risks to student outcomes are unsubstantiated and are often driven by latent transphobia and linguistic conservativism or other language attitudes. Further, those related to the development of grammatical accuracy and complexity are refuted by this study. 