
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second language acquisition research shows that social factors – such as a speaker’s identity, emotion, or stance – can influence the pronunciation of a second language and impact intelligibility. However, many commercial textbooks that teach pronunciation to students use a decontextualized and rule-based approach, which starts with individual sounds and phonemes and describes rules for how to combine them to form larger units, much like the way that grammar textbooks describe and teach syntax. In such teaching materials, social context appears to be an afterthought as very little is usually said about the importance of social and pragmatic factors that can affect intelligibility. This study takes a different approach to teaching pronunciation called the Mirroring Project, showing that it can significantly improve students’ intelligibility in delivery of oral presentations over the course of a few weeks. In “mirroring,” students choose a short video of a pronunciation role model whose identity, emotion, and stance they want to emulate, and they practice moving and talking like that role model, word for word and gesture for gesture. Later, they try to apply their role model’s pronunciation patterns and body movements to their own speech as they record original interactive presentations in front of class. Language teachers who are looking for more holistic and whole-body teaching activities may want to try this project in their own classrooms. 
What the researchers did
 
● Recruited adult students who were taking a class to improve their pronunciation in English. 
● Recorded students’ initial oral presentations during the first week of class as a diagnostic assessment and created “pronunciation profiles” for each student so that they could work on their individual pronunciation challenges. 
● Had students complete a Mirroring Project, where they practiced imitating verbal and nonverbal aspects of their selected role model’s speech; later students “channeled” these same pronunciation patterns and gestures in their own original interactive presentations in front of class. All presentations were video-recorded. 
● Used speech analysis software to document significant changes in quantitative measures across the video-recordings. 
● Had blind raters evaluate the video-recorded presentations for English intelligibility and delivery. 
● Had students complete a self-evaluation of their recorded presentations and identify where they noticed the most improvement in their English pronunciation. 
What the researchers found
 
● All students significantly improved their intelligibility in English, their second language. 
● In self-evaluations, students credited the Mirroring Project with improving their pronunciation as well as their confidence in English oral interactions. 
Things to consider
 
● Pronunciation expresses identity, emotion, and stance, and social factors can influence pronunciation and intelligibility in speaking a second language. The students in this classroom-based research study were able to improve their pronunciation and intelligibility by choosing a model speaker that they identified with and enacting that speaker’s unique emotion, personality, and voice in their interactive oral presentations. 
● As shown in this study, the Mirroring Project can be very useful for improving pronunciation features and intelligibility, as well as students’ confidence in speaking their second language. Similar activities such as role plays and other drama techniques may have similar effects. We recommend that teachers try out such activities to create spaces for language learners to use social factors to modify and improve their pronunciation and intelligibility in second language acquisition. 