
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In some societies, religion becomes a key aspect of people’s identity and has a major impact of the behaviour of teachers and learners in and out of class. In Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority country, religiosity is enshrined in state ideology Pancasila and mandatory for national education. There is, however, little published information on how interculturality and Islamic worldview cross paths and how the interface is addressed in the English as a foreign language (EFL) classroom. This study thus sought to explore the pedagogic beliefs and practices of local high-school EFL teachers regarding culture and interculturality as well as the extent to which Islamic views shape their instruction. The findings of the current study showed that, despite English being a curriculum priority, there were paradoxes of educational exigencies and attitudinal resistance to ostensibly Western culture.  
What the researchers did
 
● Research participants were five EFL teachers working in four general, Islamic and vocational high-schools located in the district of Pendalungan (pseudonym), Indonesia. Their teaching experience ranged from 12 to 24 years. 
● Data were collected by means of classroom observations, narrative frames, and stimulated-recall (SR) and in-depth interviews over a 12-week period. Observation videos served as stimulus in SR interviews. Teachers were presented with the video and asked to talk about their thoughts retrospectively. Narrative frames were story templates comprising sentence starters for teachers to complete and describe their lived experiences of the targeted phenomenon. In-depth interviews provided insights into their thoughts and motivations. A verbatim Indonesian transcription of the interviews was then translated into English for further analysis. 
● Principles of intercultural communicative language teaching provided a key reference point for the data analysis. Special attention was given to Islamic thoughts and practices relevant to the teachers’ judgments and decisions.  
What the researchers found
 
● The initial conceptions of culture, which develop primarily from socialization into first language and culture, often became a point of departure for the EFL teachers to grasp and explicate and for the students to make sense of ideas expressed in English. The teachers and students benefited from home languages, knowledge and experiences as they moved, negotiated and mediated between host and target culture. 
● The teachers had a tendency to directly link English with Western culture and perceive the cultural beliefs and behaviours of English-speaking communities as an embodiment of Western values, which can be at odds with local and especially Islamic norms and traditions. 
● Not only did the teachers seek to develop students’ English proficiency and comply with existing educational policies, but they also aspired to become ‘cultural guards’. They believed it is important for the local teachers to safeguard students’ cultural and religious values and behaviours against ‘adverse’ influence of Western culture. 
Things to consider
 
● The teachers appeared to be well aware of students’ linguistic, sociocultural, and religious backgrounds and of various immediate and situational factors at play, which help them shuttle and operate between native and target language-and-cultures. These can also facilitate the use of primary linguistic and cultural conceptions as productive learning resources and as such provide the EFL classrooms with positive intercultural learning affordances. 
● There were hints that the teachers lumped members of the target culture together. They also implied a simplistic, reductionist approach to language, culture and especially Western culture. This could well be impediments to an intercultural stance that advocates fostering keen awareness of first and additional languages and cultivating positive attitudes towards foreignness, diversity, and the other. 
● The present study calls for EFL pedagogies being more responsive to local linguistic repertoire and religio-cultural factors, highlighting the need to liberate the English classes from rigid ties to particular ethnics, nations, or speech communities. 
● This study has also foregrounded the importance of implementing English language pedagogies that are socially grounded in local culture in which people may have linguistic, sociocultural and religious norms and practices believed to be different from or in contest with those of the English-speaking communities 