
What the research is about and why it is important The study looked at how learning a second language (L2) and third language (L3) at the same time affects learning progress. The researchers state that someone who already knows two languages has an advantage when learning a third one and wanted to figure out if learning them at the same time is helpful or disruptive to the learning of either language. The hypothesis was that the L2+L3 learners would improve less in their L2 in one year than the L2 learners due to a limitation in resources, like time, motivation, and the external environment. University students from China who learned English as their L2 were examined in two groups, one of which learned only the L2 and the other, which learned English and an L3 at the same time. The researchers found that there were no differences between the two groups in writing skill gain, but a greater complexity in L2 writing among those who learned the L2 and started a new L3 (L2+ learners). 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 72 Chinese adult University students from the 1st or 2nd year, who had English as their second language that they had learned at school for approximately 10 years. 34 participants were English majors from the traditional foreign language programme, while the remaining 38 participants were English and Russian majors from the bi-foreign language programme. Participants within each cohort entered University with a similar English proficiency level and shared the same English teacher. 
● Researchers collected written texts from the participants every three weeks over the course of one academic year at a University in China (nine months). 
● The researchers classified each participant according to the language programme and year they belonged to. The first-year students from the traditional foreign language programme were classified as L2 learners and consisted of 23 students. The second-year students from the same programme, which were eleven, were classified as L2+ learners, because they started to learn a new L3 language but with less instruction time than the L2+L3 learners. Students from the bi-foreign language programme in both the first and second year were classified as L2 + L3 learners, with the two groups consisting of 22 and 16 students respectively. 
What the researchers found
 
● The score of every group of learners increased over time. 
● The hypothesis was not verified. There was no notable difference inv L2 writing proficiency level between the different groups of learners. 
● Speculative reasons named for the L2+L3 learners´ results are advantages because of present knowledge on how to learn a language efficiently. 
● The only notable differences in variability of L2 writing fluency were found for first year L2+L3 learners. This appears to be a destabilisation of the L2 system at the beginning of learning a new language, which might occur due to limited learning resources. But variability is not necessarily seen as a negative sign. Among the 2nd year students, L2+ learners gained more in complexity of language use. 
Things to consider
 
● The conclusion of the study is that the simultaneous learning of an L2 and L3 does not negatively affect the proficiency and learning of the L2. 
● The personal learning background and internal and external resources of the learner should be investigated in further studies to explain varying proficiency and complexity levels among learners.   