
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers and researchers have long been interested in how second language learners deliberate over accurate language use in small-group classroom tasks. However, few studies have focused on how learners negotiate (1) a shared understanding of the task’s goals, (2) the relevant content they need to carry it out, (3) the progress they are making toward task completion, or (4) how they want their partners to interpret what they say. Still, it logically follows that learners would need to get “on the same page” with regard to these discursive aspects of language use before deliberations over accurate choices of language structures can occur. In this study, we documented the time learners spent deliberating over discursive aspects of their language use in four communicative classroom tasks as well as the time spent deliberating over accuracy. We also identified the four functions of discursive deliberations above within each task. Exploring deliberations over discursive planning is helpful because it can reveal places where learners may have difficulty understanding what instructors expect of them in the task, how their partners perceive the legitimacy of their contributions, and the social dynamics that emerge. We believe that all of these affect the learning opportunities that classroom tasks create for participants. 
What the researchers did
 
● Our data came from two intact, third-year Spanish classes at a U.S. public high school. 
● We audio and video recorded 19 learners divided into four groups (two groups in each class), each completing four small-group tasks as part of three 90-minute lessons 
● We transcribed the recordings, identified places where learners deliberated over accurate structural choices and places where they negotiated over their discursive plans, and then measured the amounts of time for each. 
● Within discursive plans, we also distinguished negotiations over task goals, the means for carrying them out, learners’ progress toward task completion, and the interpretive framing of what was meant by what was said.  
What the researchers found
 
● Learners spent more time negotiating over discursive plans than accuracy, both overall and in almost every group’s performance of each task 
● Tasks with a broader range of potentially relevant content, or also content relating to personal experience, had greater amounts of negotiation over discourse plans. 
● Amounts of discourse negotiation also varied by individuals and the partners they worked with. 
Things to consider
 
● Negotiation over discursive plans lays an important foundation for negotiations over accurate language use. 
● In tasks that solicit content from a broad range of possibilities or from learners’ personal experiences, many learners may engage in discursive negotiations to ensure that their contributions are acceptable to peers. 
● Understanding learners’ discursive negotiations can provide insights into how effectively instructional goals for language use in classroom tasks are being met. 