
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Recently, peer feedback has become increasingly popular in language classrooms. It can be used alongside or instead of teacher feedback, and several studies have shown that it can be as effective as teacher feedback under the right circumstances. While it might be less accurate and focused than teacher feedback, researchers have argued that it is effective because learners take a more active role when they also provide feedback rather than just receiving it. However, it has been shown that some students are more open to peer feedback than others. The researchers then wanted to know if a more positive attitude towards peer feedback would mean greater learning outcomes for those students. They tested this on the example of second language (L2) German pronunciation. 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited 74 first-year learners of German at three different universities in the U.S. 
● They assigned the learners to one of three groups, such that learners were either (1) providing peer feedback (PF Providers), (2) receiving peer feedback (PF Receivers), or (3) part of a control group. 
● They had all learners fill out a questionnaire with 20 items to be rated on a 5-point scale asking learners about their beliefs about peer feedback (“Beliefs Questionnaire”). In addition, all learners completed a pronunciation test, in which they read German words and sentences out loud. 
● After this first round of testing, the PF Providers and the PF Receivers completed a short pronunciation training and then started the peer feedback activities, for which the learners submitted a recording of 24 German sentences. Each learner in the PF Provider group was assigned a partner in the PF Receiver group. o Day 1: the PF Providers listened to their partner’s recording and gave them oral feedback on their pronunciation. o Day 2: the PF Receivers used the feedback they had received from their partner to re-record the original 24 sentences. 
● After two rounds of this peer feedback intervention, all learners took the pronunciation test again. 
● The recordings from before and after the intervention were rated on a 9-point scale by native speakers in Germany. 
● The researchers then correlated the responses from the Beliefs Questionnaire with the pronunciation improvement scores that the learners had received when being rated by the native speakers. 
What the researchers found
 
● The analyses showed that the more positive the learners felt about peer feedback before starting the intervention, the more their pronunciation improved after participating in the peer feedback activities. This finding is consistent with results in other areas of L2 research that show that generally learner beliefs tend to influence learning outcomes. 
● This study also teased apart if there were differences based on whether the students had provided or received peer feedback. The researchers found that there was no such difference. That is, the finding that beliefs about peer feedback influence learning outcomes holds for all learners participating in peer feedback activities, no matter what their role in the interaction is. 
Things to consider
 
● Because we have seen that learner beliefs are correlated with learning gains, it is important for instructors to understand learner beliefs and reinforce or shape them. Learner beliefs can be influenced through certain interventions, for example through metacognitive awareness raising or peer feedback training. 
● Why should instructors attempt to influence their learners’ beliefs? If L2 research has shown that peer feedback is effective and if learners also strongly believe in its effectiveness, then greater learning gains can be expected. On the other hand, if learners doubt the effectiveness of an instructional technique, one would expect smaller learning gains. Thus, the researchers argue that instructors will benefit from understanding their learners’ beliefs because it will allow them to reinforce beliefs that are consistent with L2 research and challenge beliefs that are not, which will in turn lead to better learning outcomes. 