
What this research was about and why it is important 
  When engaging second language (L2) learners in face-to-face and online interactions, teachers must make decisions about how to pair them up. Should teachers pair up a learner with another learner or with a native speaker? Previous research has shown that the way learners are paired up can impact L2 development because of the quantity and quality of language negotiations that happen through interactions. The more language negotiations, the more opportunities learners might have to develop their L2. Although learners can develop their L2 by interacting with other learners and with native speakers, it is still unclear which pair type (learner-learner or native speaker-learner) is more effective for L2 learning in face-to-face and online interactions. This study compared face-to-face versus synchronous online text-messaging interactions of three pair types (i.e., native speaker-low proficiency learner, native speaker-high proficiency learner, and low-high proficiency learners) to find out which mode of communication and pair type can lead to the most L2 learning. All pairs performed one task in each mode. The study suggested that the pair type, communication mode, and learners’ proficiency level tend to impact L2 learning through task-based interactions. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were four native speakers and eight L2 learners. The native speakers, aged between 21-31, were American female undergraduate students studying education at a university in the United States. The L2 learners, aged between 39-47, were Japanese female English learners. Four L2 learners were low-proficiency learners (LPL) and four were high-proficiency learners (HPL). 
● The participants were paired up to form two of each of the following pair types: native speaker-LPL, native speaker-HPL, and HPL-LPL. All pairs completed a spot-the-difference task through face-to-face and synchronous online text-messaging interactions. In the face-to-face mode, the participants sat at a table facing each other. A file folder was placed on the table to serve as a barrier to prevent them from seeing each other’s picture. In the online mode, the participants were placed in different study rooms. They used Skype text-messaging, without video or audio functions, to complete the task. The face-to-face interactions were audio-recorded, and the online chat logs were saved in a Word file. 
● The learners took a posttest, designed to measure their L2 development. The posttest included vocabulary and grammatical items that participants used in their language negotiation episodes during the interactions. 
What the researchers found
 
● In both communication modes, the L2 learners tended to benefit more from interacting with a native speaker than with another L2 learner. That was because interactions between learners and native speakers created more language negotiations. 
● Face-to-face interactions tended to benefit LPLs’ learning more than HPLs’, whereas synchronous online text-messaging interactions tended to facilitate HPLs’ learning more than LPLs’. 
● The unique features of each communication mode impacted learners’ L2 development differently. The face-to-face mode tended to benefit the LPLs more possibly because face-to-face interactions allowed for the use of paralinguistic cues (e.g., tone of voice, facial expressions), which indicated language-related issues and created language negotiations. The online text-messaging mode tended to facilitate the HPLs’ learning more probably because text availability and greater processing time (1) drew the HPLs’ attention to the input received and (2) helped them notice and correct what they needed to improve in terms of vocabulary and grammatical structures. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers should consider pairing up an L2 learner with a native speaker, if possible. Interactions between a native speaker and a learner encourage language negotiations, which may promote L2 learning. 
● Teachers should include both face-to-face and synchronous online interactions in the classroom to foster L2 development. Face-to-face interactions might be more conducive to improving fluency due to the fast pace of interactions and paralinguistic cues; synchronous online text-messaging might provide more opportunities for noticing grammatical gaps due to the accessibility of the text and more time for language processing. 