
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many children in the U.S. who speak languages other than English at home attend English-medium schools where instruction takes place primarily or entirely in English. However, research shows that supporting students’ emerging bi/multilingualism is beneficial for students’ language, literacy, and social development. Thus, research is needed exploring how teachers and students in English-medium classrooms can welcome and value students’ bilingual writing practices. This can be a challenge, however, when teachers do not speak students’ languages and/or when students are emergent writers in their home language. This study explored one strategy for supporting students’ bilingual composing: using digital translation tools. Observational data were analyzed to see how one classroom of second-grade students used Google Translate as a tool to support their biliterate composing. The study showed that students used Google Translate to support their inclusion of bilingual text and to interact with peers. They also encountered limitations around the use of Google Translate. What the researcher did 
● The researcher spent one school year observing and video recording the daily writing interactions in a second-grade, English-medium classroom. She partnered with the classroom teacher to consider how to adapt writing instruction to support students’ bilingual composing. 
● 14 of the 24 consenting students reported that they spoke Spanish or some Spanish at home, and three other students reported speaking some Korean, French, or Tagalog at home, respectively. 
● The teacher introduced Google Translate as a tool that students could use while writing. She modeled using Google Translate and invited students to try using it as a way to support inclusion of text in multiple languages. 
● The researcher analyzed video recordings to find patterns in how students used Google Translate while writing. What the researcher found Three main patterns related to students’ use of Google Translate were found: 
● Students used Google Translate to support their inclusion of bilingual text. Emerging users of a language used Google Translate to create texts that aligned them with family members’ bilingual language practices, or to position themselves as multilingual language learners in the classroom. More experienced speakers of languages beyond English drew on Google Translate to support academic spelling and vocabulary while composing bilingually. 
● Students used Google Translate to interact with peers. The tool enabled students to 1) share moments of enjoyment, 2) play with languages, and 3) gain one another’s attention. 
● Students at times encountered limitations around the use of Google Translate. Their talk highlighted how the tool valued “standardized” language forms and therefore could discount other language varieties. Students also at times viewed Google Translate as the language expert, overlooking their own or peers’ language knowledge. 
Things to consider
 
● Existing literature suggested Google Translate could support emergent bilingual students’ English development. This article provided new insights by showing how students used Google Translate to support bilingual composing in an English-medium classroom. 
● Google Translate was a supportive device for writing bilingually, helping students overcome uncertainty about spelling and vocabulary. It was one resource that all students, regardless of language expertise, could use to engage with languages beyond English in writing. 
● Students’ use of this tool also raised questions about standardized language ideologies and whose language knowledge is valued or counted as “correct.” Findings emphasize the importance of pairing the use of digital translation tools with critical digital literacy practices that interrogate their consumption and use. 