
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In research into language learning, the grammaticality (or acceptability) judgment task (e.g., judging whether or not a sentence is grammatical) has been widely used as a measure of learners’ grammar knowledge. It has been believed that imposing time pressure on making judgments provides a measure of knowledge that is available for fluent (fast and without conscious effort) use, as opposed to untimed conditions in which learners access their knowledge (more) slowly and with (more) effort. Although many studies have tried to validate the association of the timed condition with fluent use of knowledge, and the untimed condition with slow use of knowledge, those studies focused on the accuracy of judgments, neglecting what learners actually do (their reading behavior) while they read sentences. This study recorded eye movements of L1 and L2 English speakers while they made grammaticality judgments with time pressure (timed) and without time pressure (untimed). The study also tested the role of lexical processing speed (i.e., how fast one can process individual words) as a variable that might influence the effect of time pressure. Results showed that time pressure may not work as well as previously thought as a way of eliciting fluent knowledge; also, results showed that the time pressure effect varied across different speakers and could depend on the speed that they can process words. 
What the researchers did
 
● 31 L1 and 40 L2 English speakers made grammaticality judgments under timed and untimed conditions while their eye movements were recorded. 
● The judgment task targeted six syntactic and morphological structures: (a) 3rd-person singular -s, (b) mass versus count nouns, (c) passives, (d) verb complements (to do vs. V-ing), (e) embedded questions, and (f) comparatives. 
● There were two types of eye-movement measures: (a) an early measure (first-pass reading time) that indexed fluent processing and use of knowledge and (b) later measures (regression of eyes, rereading time, and mean fixation count) that indexed conscious and slow processing and use of knowledge. 
● Participants’ lexical processing speed was measured using a semantic classification task in which participants judged, as quickly as possible, whether a word on the computer screen was living or non-living (e.g., girl vs. desk). 
● By comparing the task performance of the L1 and L2 participants under the timed and the untimed conditions, the researchers examined how time pressure shifted the balance between fluent and slow use of knowledge and whether the effect of time pressure varied with the participants’ lexical processing speed. 
What the researchers found
 
● In the timed condition, both L1 and L2 participants’ slow processing was suppressed. This effect was larger for L2 participants, mainly because they engaged in slower processing and use of knowledge than did L1 participants. This suggested that time pressure is indeed useful in eliciting fluent use of grammar knowledge. 
● At the same time, time pressure also suppressed the fluent use of language knowledge for both L1 and L2 participants, which raises the question of whether adding time pressure is a valid task manipulation to elicit fluent L2 knowledge. 
● Lexical processing speed moderated the effect of time pressure on the slow use of knowledge, but only for L2 participants. While L2 participants with more fluent lexical processing skills engaged in fluent use of knowledge regardless of time pressure, those with slow lexical processing skills were severely affected. 
Things to consider
 
● Time pressure is a double-edged sword; it can suppress the slow use of grammar knowledge, but it can also degrade the fluent use of knowledge. Setting appropriate time limits for grammatical judgment tests is hence critical. 
● The effect of time pressure is not uniform for L2 speakers. For example, for those with fast lexical processing skills, the effect can be feeble because they process and use grammar knowledge fluently whether the task is timed or untimed. 