
What this research was about and why it is important 
 As the popularity of short-term study abroad programs for foreign/second language (L2) students continues to grow, it is critical to investigate the benefits that students can obtain from these programs and whether such benefits persist after the program ends. Understanding and explaining these benefits is important for both students and administrators as they make decisions about participating in and designing study abroad programs. This research was conducted to better understand the impact of short-term study abroad on two areas of learner development: (a) linguistic abilities (overall L2 proficiency, speaking abilities, and grammatical and lexical knowledge), and (b) self-perceived psychobehavioral characteristics (self-perceived flexibility and adaptability in the face of new situations). We assessed U.S. students learning L2 Spanish who were studying abroad in Oviedo, Spain, at the beginning and end of their program, and again 5 weeks after they returned to their home institution. Findings highlight that learners show linguistic and non-linguistic development after their stay abroad and that this development is at least partially maintained for several weeks afterwards. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 25 L2 Spanish learners enrolled in a summer study abroad program in Oviedo, Spain. They lived with Spanish-speaking host families. Participants completed three test sessions, held at the beginning and end of the program, as well as 5 weeks after the program ended. 
● To measure linguistic development, learners completed the following tasks: (a) for overall proficiency, an elicited imitation task in which they listened to and repeated a series of sentences in Spanish, (b) for complexity and accuracy in speaking, an oral diary task that prompted them to reflect on their experiences during their stay abroad aloud, in Spanish, and (c) to measure ability to identify grammatical and lexical errors, an acceptability judgment test that required them to read and judge sentences in Spanish. 
● To measure non-linguistic development, learners completed questionnaires that targeted their self-perceived ability to be flexible and adapt to new and/or uncertain situations and contexts. 
What the researchers found
 
● By the end of the study abroad program, learners’ Spanish abilities increased in various ways. Participants made significant gains in their overall proficiency, in their complexity and accuracy during speaking, and in their ability to identify grammatical errors in written sentences. 
● Results obtained 5 weeks after the end of the study abroad program, when participants were back at their home university in the United States, revealed that most linguistic gains persisted. Specifically, gains in overall proficiency, in complexity during speaking, and in ability to identify grammatical errors were maintained. 
● In terms of non-linguistic development, learners perceived themselves as more flexible and adaptable in the face of novel and uncertain situations at the end of the study abroad program, and these changes were maintained 5 weeks after the program ended. 
Things to consider
 
● Short-term study abroad promoted immediate linguistic and non-linguistic development at the end of the immersion period for these learners. These gains were largely maintained up to 5 weeks after the study abroad program in the absence of additional L2 instruction or strong continuous contact with the L2 or the L2 community. 
● Students should be aware of some of the potential non-linguistic benefits of study abroad, such as perceived flexibility and adaptability, which have been linked to other positive student outcomes in academic and non-academic contexts.  
● Avenues for future research include investigating the impact of short-term study abroad on other linguistic skills and abilities and the exploration of possible relationships between students’ self-perceptions and their linguistic development abroad.  