
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Use of exam scores or performance data has emerged as a global trend in education for monitoring schools’ and teachers’ works. Such data-driven control of schooling has come to be defined as ‘datafication’. The key intention underpinning datafication is to promote accountability based on performance data. However, such accountability mechanisms and datafication have often served more bureaucratic than educational purposes. Schools and teachers are placed in a difficult situation with a political demand for increased performance data, and such a situation often leads to compromise in broader educational goals through ‘teaching to the test’ practices. While datafication and its impact have been problematized in education in developed countries, little is known about how this trend plays out in developing societies and in relation to English language teaching, in particular. Taking Bangladesh secondary-level education as a case, the current study addressed this gap and examined how datafication played out in schooling in this context. Drawing on Pierre Bourdieu’s relational sociology and his concepts of field, capital, and habitus, the study examined how datafication shaped school leaders’ and English language teachers’ dispositions and English language teaching practices in schools. Findings illustrated notable ‘relationships’ between datafication, teachers’ disposition and schooling practices such that teachers ended up mainly teaching to the test in order to avoid punitive measures. However, the findings also showed potential for teacher agency to contest datafication.      
What the researchers did
 
● The study employed a qualitative case study, which was informed by Bourdieu’s conceptual resources. 
● 13 education actors, including 4 school leaders and 9 English teachers were recruited. All participants were interviewed to elicit data around their perceptions and experiences of schooling and classroom teaching in relation to the broader curricular goals of communication skills development. 
● 2 lessons were observed for each English teacher to understand how their teaching practices reflected broader curricular goals. Additionally, classroom observation aimed at understanding the factors that mediated such teaching practices in schools.  
● Both the interview and observation data were transcribed first. Data were analyzed by coding them through content analysis. The coding was informed by Bourdieu’s concepts of field, capital, and habitus.  
What the researchers found
 
● The findings revealed tensions between broader curricular goals of communication skills development and schooling practices. Schooling practices and classroom teaching were largely influenced by datafication. 
● School leaders and English language teachers demonstrated a growing concern for ensuring a high pass rate in the secondary English exams as failure to do so may result in punitive measures such as freezing teachers’ salaries.  
● In this context, the primary aim of schooling became focused on what is relevant to exams and performance data. 
● Teachers mainly taught reading and writing as these two skills are assessed in exams. Listening and speaking skills were hardly emphasized due to their irrelevance to exams and performance data.  
● Nevertheless, some teachers exercised agency and innovated practices that showed potential for responding to broader language teaching goals by integrating speaking tasks within exam-centric teaching practices. 
Things to consider
 
● Findings suggest that schooling is regulated by its own logics, which can be shaped by political pressures and accountability mechanisms promoted through datafication of schooling. 
● Such logics may not always converge with those of the curriculum policy, particularly when curriculum and high-stakes testing are in tensions. 
● The findings imply that paying adequate attention to how school leaders’ and English language teachers’ dispositions are shaped by the practical logics of schooling such as datafication is critical to develop an understanding of the nature of schooling practices amid a data-oriented accountability regime. 
● In such a context, the potential of teachers’ capacity to exercise agency needs to be recognized. Teacher agency can lead to innovative practices which can be exemplary in terms of navigating through the challenges of growing political pressures in schooling through datafication.  