
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The language of professional communication in connection with the national identity of citizens who represent the administrative sphere of a country is crucial for statehood. Particularly, in the context of intensifying globalization and integration processes in the modern world, escalation of socio-political situation in neighboring countries, and occupation of state territories. The national identity of civil servants in the border regions of Ukraine needs increased attention by Ukrainian society. Many civil servants in these regions are bilingual, which raises the question: Is the use of the Ukrainian language or the Russian language by Ukrainian civil servants in professional communication related to their national identity? The research investigated the relationship between the parameters (positivity and clarity) of national identity of civil servants with the language of professional communication depending on their gender, the form of communication (oral or written) and the communication situation (with colleagues or users of public services). 
What the researchers did
 
● They surveyed 144 bilingual civil servants from the regions of Ukraine bordering on Russia. The subjects are fluent in the Ukrainian language, which is confirmed by certificates at the level not lower than C1 (advanced). However, respondents often use the Russian language in everyday communication. 
● They found out which language (Ukrainian or Russian) is used by bilingual civil servants in oral and written professional communication with colleagues and users of public services. 
● They established valence (emotional attitude of the individual to their national origin and affiliation) and clarity (awareness of personality of their own national origin and affiliation) of the national identity of civil servants. 
● They identified and analyzed connections between the valence and clarity of the national identity of male and female civil servants and the language of their oral and written professional communication with colleagues and users of public services. 
What the researchers found
 
● The more positive the attitude of bilingual civil servants towards their nationality, the more often they use the Ukrainian language in oral and written professional communication with colleagues and users of public services. 
● Male civil servants and female civil servants who have a positive attitude towards their own nationality prefer the Ukrainian language in oral and written professional communication with colleagues. Male civil servants with high valences of national identity more often use the Ukrainian language in oral professional communication with users of public services. Female civil servants with high valence rates of national identity use Ukranian more in written professional communication with users of public services. 
● The more clearly bilingual civil servants are aware of their nationality, the more often they use the Ukrainian language in oral professional communication with colleagues and users of public services. 
● Male civil servants with high levels of clarity of national identity use the Ukrainian language in oral professional communication with colleagues and users of public services. Women civil servants with high levels of clarity of national identity – in oral professional communication with colleagues and written professional communication with users of public services. 
Things to consider
 
● The peculiarities of the language of professional communication of bilingual civil servants of the regions of Ukraine and the border with Russia reflect the historical past and political present of the country. It is likely these findings can be extended to countries that have undergone “language colonization”. 
● Determining the relationship between language and national identity requires differentiated study of the language of oral and written communication, analysis of the specifics of the communicative situation (eg, professional communication with colleagues or users of public services), and the gender of the subjects of communication. 
● Language training programs for civil servants require a change of emphasis from the procedural component of the development of language competencies to the motivational component of the use of the state language. 