
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second-career teachers are career changers who resigned from their previous jobs and transitioned to the teaching profession. While the literature addressing second-career teachers typically focuses on teachers whose previous works were unrelated to teaching, little attention has been given to career changers who transitioned from teaching one subject to another. This study reported how three Chinese-as-a-second-language (CSL) teachers who previously taught English as a second language (ESL) constructed their second-career identities under significant professional and contextual changes. The participants’ career-change experiences are defined as ‘trans-professional’ experiences, which refer to an occupational change when a teacher switches from teaching one subject area to another. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers investigated three Chinese teachers who had similar experiences transitioning from teaching ESL to CSL. The three participants, aged 38 to 45, were female teachers who spoke Mandarin Chinese as their first language and English as their second language. The researchers detailed their educational backgrounds and teaching experiences – they all worked as ESL teachers in mainland China before switching to teaching CSL in Western-based, English medium schools, in Australia and Hong Kong.  
● The researchers conducted in-depth, narrative interviews to understand the participants’ trans-professional experiences. Each participant was interviewed three times in Mandarin Chinese, code-mixed with English. The interviews focused on the continuities and discontinuities in participants’ trans-professional experiences from teaching ESL in nation-state school contexts to CSL in Western-based school contexts. Each interview took about an hour and a half. 
● The audio-taped interviews were then transcribed into texts and translated into English. 
● In the initial coding stage, they found two organizational themes (professional identification in ESL teaching and building connections from previous career experiences in CSL teaching) and sought to re-story the narrative data accordingly.  
What the researchers found
 
● The participants brought to their trans-professional experiences more personal, educational, and professional quests than novice teachers or teachers without trans-professional experiences. 
● The participants employed various language and knowledge brokering acts, including adjusting their perceptions of teacher-student relationship, teacher authority, and linguistic practices, to help them create new meanings for their professional identities and become core members of their professional communities. 
● The various brokering acts created strong power for the participants to find meaningful connections between ESL and CSL teaching and facilitated their professional identity construction. 
● Complex differences exist in the participants’ ESL and CSL teaching experiences, including their brokering activities across different linguistic communities, traditional authority-based versus Western-liberal educational settings, and native versus non-native identities. These could be crucial in mediating the career changers’ perceptions about teacher authority and teacher-student relationship in cross-cultural and cross-lingual settings. 
Things to consider
 
● The construction of trans-professional identity is closely associated with language and knowledge brokering across linguistic, cultural, and professional boundaries. 
● Teachers who seek to switch from teaching one subject to another may get references for potential challenges and connections between teaching different subject areas listed above and the brokering acts. 