
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Task-based language teaching is a popular teaching methodology. While there has been much research on how certain task characteristics affect student learning, less work has focused on how to incorporate different tasks in the syllabus. This study adopts different types of sequencing of writing tasks and observes the effects of different task sequencing on writing development over three weeks. Different groups of learners performed a series of writing tasks that were sequenced in different orders (simple-to-complex, complex-to-simple, independent tasks), and their writing development was examined in terms of grammatical complexity, accuracy, lexical (word) choice, and fluency. The study found that both sequencing groups’ writing development was better than tasks that were performed without sequencing, while the benefits were larger in the simple-to-complex sequencing conditions than complex-to-simple sequencing. What the researcher did 
● Learners were 100 students of English as a second language who were taking writing classes in college. As part of class activities, they performed a series of writing tasks over three weeks. Tasks differed in terms of the level of challenge, so there were simple, medium, and complex tasks. 
● Learners were divided into three groups in which they completed tasks presented in different orders: o the simple-to-complex group performed tasks that gradually increase a task’s challenge (i.e., simple-medium-complex) o the complex-to-simple group performed tasks in reverse order (i.e., complex-medium-simple). The sequence was repeated three times over three weeks to observe the longer-term sequencing effects. o Finally, the last group performed only one of the tasks in each week (i.e., no sequencing) so that the two sequencing conditions were compared to no sequencing condition. 
● Learners’ writing performance of each group was examined for grammatical complexity, accuracy, lexical choice, and fluency development. What the researcher found 
● Learners in the simple-to-complex group produced structurally longer and grammatically complex sentences and grammatically more accurate sentences over time, compared to learners in the complex-to-simple group. 
● Learners showed more language improvement in writing when performed through sequences compared to performing tasks once. 
● While tasks performed in the sequence were beneficial for language development, the development was non-linear over time. 
Things to consider
 
● Tasks should be sequenced from cognitively simple to complex in order to maximize language learning. 
● Writing teachers can provide practice opportunities for learners to stabilize their recently learned knowledge of target lexical items and grammatical structures. Next, they can present writing tasks with or without supplementary support and guidance so that writing tasks encourage learners to develop language skills that facilitate automatic and fluent language use. Over time, students can be guided to perform tasks that are more complex so that they can extend their linguistic knowledge to use more sophisticated and advanced language. 