
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Many language learners participate in study abroad programs with the goal of improving their language skills. These students and their parents, along with language educators and program administrators, expect that these learners will return home from study abroad speaking the second language fluently, or at least at a higher level than when they left home. Yet, past and current research demonstrates that many learners do not show improvement on oral and written exams in the second language following a semester of study abroad. Some studies also show that learners who stay at home to study the language make even more progress than those who study abroad. Because thousands of students around the world engage in study abroad each year, it is critical to understand the most important influences on language acquisition during study abroad. This study focused on the role of social networks with native speakers in order to determine how these networks, and the time that learners spent speaking the second language with people in their social networks, impacted language learning. This study demonstrated that social networks with native speakers are the key to acquiring informal language, or language that mirrors how native speakers actually speak in every day contexts, during study abroad. 
What the researchers did
 
● The learners included 17 American university students studying abroad in France. The learners ranged in age from 19-22 (with 2 exceptions) and the study included 3 male students and 14 female students. 
● All of the students spent an academic semester (7) or a full academic year (10) in France. All but one of the learners was a full-time student (one learner was a teaching assistant in a middle school). 
● All learners were interviewed in French at the beginning and at the end of the study abroad period. The learners who stayed a full year in France were also interviewed mid-year (January). 
● Each recorded interview included approximately 30 minutes of informal conversation focused on the study abroad experience. Learners also completed a biographical questionnaire at the first interview in order to see how certain learner characteristics affect language acquisition. 
● To measure the strength of the social networks that learners were able to create with native speakers, the learners completed a Social Network Strength Scale (SNSS) for Study Abroad at the second and third interviews. 
● Using the recorded interviews, the development of the learners’ ability to use two features of spoken, informal French was examined. These linguistic data were compared to the scores on the SNSS to determine a potential correlation. 
What the researchers found
 
● Social networks with native speakers had a positive influence on the use of both features of spoken, informal French: /l/ deletion in 3rd person subject pronouns and schwa deletion in single-syllable words. 
● Learners who scored 5 points or above on the SNSS (out of 10 possible points) were more likely to use both of the features of spoken, informal French than learners who scored below 5 on the SNSS. A score of 5 meant that learners were speaking French with the native speakers in their social networks for approximately 10-20 hours per week. 
● No other factors had a measurable influence on the use of these two features of informal French with the exception of time abroad for schwa deletion. Factors such as speaking a third language at home and completing upper-division language coursework before study abroad did not have a significant influence on language acquisition. 
● In general, learners who stayed a full year in France used informal French at much higher rates than semester learners. 
Things to consider
 
● Social networks between learners and native speakers are critical to language acquisition during study abroad, but creating a social network in the host country is not always an easy task for study abroad learners. 
● Study abroad learners need to stay longer in the host country and they need assistance in creating meaningful relationships with native speakers; however, fewer and fewer students are studying abroad for a full academic year. Universities and government organizations are in a position to change these trends by making year-long study abroad programs more accessible to all students regardless of financial constraints or major coursework requirements. 