
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigated second language learners’ knowledge of the 3000 most common Spanish words. These cover around 95% of the words used in a language. These words are very important for language learning and form the basis for educational materials. In the US, where this study took place, universities enroll students in approximately two years of language courses before more advanced, upper-level, courses like linguistics and culture. This study investigated whether students taking language courses would have enough word knowledge to be able to cope with the more advanced courses. This is important because completion of language courses assumes a certain amount of learned vocabulary knowledge. The findings of this study could be applied to other advanced level students who have completed a similar amount of Spanish instruction, and even to learners studying other languages.  What the researcher did Vocabulary knowledge was tested using a lexical decision task (the 3K‐Lex) in which the learners were asked to answer yes or no as to whether they knew a Spanish word. The test included 162 items – 108 were real, common, Spanish words, and 54 were invented, psuedowords. Psuedowords resemble words in the language being tested, but are not real (e.g., Avispura, Calio). The real words were selected from word frequency lists to ensure they were in the top 3000 most common Spanish words. 834 undergraduates from a public university in the US took part. The majority were native English speakers. They were studying first-year, second-year, or more advanced level courses (called upper-level courses). The study took into account the number of classes each learner had taken in Spanish. The learners were all studying Spanish at university level, but differed in the number of Spanish courses taken (1-10 courses). For the analysis, the learners were divided by how many courses they had taken (1-2, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8 and 9-10). The researcher compared the number of words known and the number of courses taken, and the number of words known based on the words’ frequencies in Spanish. The researcher also looked at how many high school courses the students had previously taken (less than, or more than, seven) and compared this with word knowledge.  What the researcher found The majority of new words were learned during first year courses (more than 500 words per course). Word learning decreased from the second year of study and even more after that (38 words per course on average). In fact, students learned more words in their first year of study than in the following four years of classes. Of the 3000 most frequent words, students knew only 74.5% of them before reaching advanced level courses. This is far below the 95% needed to ensure sufficient understanding to succeed at upper-level courses (e.g., linguistics, culture, literature). In terms of the effect of the amount of high school Spanish instruction, the researcher found that high school instruction only affected word learning in the first year of university. The effect disappeared by the second year. The results showed that the first year of study at university is most important for learning the 3000 most common Spanish words. Furthermore, students enrolled in advanced level courses are likely to lack a significant quantity of words necessary to succeed at those courses. The researcher suggests this might be because textbooks do not provide tools for teachers to teach high-frequency words systematically. This has been found in previous studies analyzing textbooks for German, English and Spanish. 
Things to consider
 
● The frequency of vocabulary should be considered when designing classroom materials and the 3000 most frequent words be prioritized. 
● Advanced level students may lack a significant amount of high-frequency word knowledge. 
● High-frequency words should be focused on throughout learning, not just in the early years. 
● Measurement of learners’ vocabulary knowledge throughout learning would provide teachers with insight into how many high-frequency words learners really know and where further instruction would be of benefit. 