
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Learners whose first language is not English often study academic content in English to simultaneously acquire the language and to learn academic knowledge. In such contexts, second language (L2) listening skills are crucial for understanding lesson content and for learning new language skills and items. It is often reported, however, that L2 listening skills are poorly- or under-taught. To develop appropriate L2 listening pedagogy, it is necessary to understand what listening difficulties English learners face in English medium instruction (EMI) and how they overcome said difficulties. In this paper, learners watched EMI presentations and reported on their listening-related difficulties and how they overcame those difficulties. Results were divided into 4 main sections: Descriptions of the nuanced ebb-and-flow of comprehension throughout a listening text, reports of 8 categories of difficulties that could impact comprehension, and explanations of both listening strategies learners use and knowledge types that can impact L2 listening comprehension. What the researcher did 
● EMI learners watched live presentations in English. 
● The learners rated their comprehension levels during the live presentations by watching videos of the presentations using a specially adapted software. 
● The researcher used the comprehension ratings and the videos to interview each learner about their difficulties and associated responses. 
● Time-stamped ratings, transcriptions of the presentations, and interview transcripts were combined to provide a second-by-second account of the learners’ experiences of watching the presentations. What the researcher found 
● Ratings data showed that comprehension was highly nuanced rather than simply being a binary ‘I understand vs. I don’t understand’. 
● Ratings data showed the nature of idiosyncratic- and/or commonly-experienced listening difficulties.  
● 8 types of difficulties were identified: Emotional (e.g., concentration, anxiety, motivation), connecting items to overall themes and previous knowledge, identifying individual words and sounds, connecting to peers and the speaker, lack of- or conflicting knowledge, reading and understanding visual aids, language-related (e.g., vocabulary knowledge and grammar troubles), and mathematics-related difficulties. 
● 5 main categories of knowledge were required to help learners make sense of the presentations: Technical knowledge relating to the academic subject, general knowledge shared by the speaker and the learners, knowledge concerning how presentations are structured, personal knowledge derived from individuals’ experiences, knowledge about presentation content derived from previewing the presentation’s publicity/abstract. 
● Some knowledge automatically enabled better comprehension; other knowledge required the learners to think about how the knowledge was related to the topic, to make guesses, or to focus their attention in specific ways.  
● 9 further listening skills were identified. Concentrating, guessing, directing focus, waiting to pick up comprehensible utterances, directly translating in their heads, thinking, imagining, predicting, and researching both during and after presentations. 
Things to consider
 
● Ratings provided an alternative way to dynamically measure comprehension than commonly used static quiz / test scores. 
● Much research uses group-based surveys to identify listening-related phenomena, therefore, these classroom-situated, individualized accounts of listening difficulties can complement much current research. 
● Learners’ explanation of the difficulties they encountered can be used to devise much improved listening-focused pedagogy. For example, understanding the types of difficulties learners face at various stages of their L2 development can provide appropriately designed language programs, and allows educators to identify individual’s language practice needs. Furthermore, planners can understand L2 learners’ readiness to undertake academic study in a second language, such as English. 