
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The rates of foreign language teachers leaving the profession have been consistently high over the past few decades. Research has shown that attrition appears most prominent in the case of early-career language teachers (i.e., those with 0 to 7 years of teaching experience), in light of the unique challenges they face at the start of their career. Acknowledging the important role that wellbeing plays in promoting teacher retention in the profession, this study investigated the factors in relation to wellbeing that may contribute to shaping early-career foreign language teachers’ intention to leave or stay in the profession. Individual interviews were conducted with early-career language teachers in two different linguistic and educational settings, namely, Austria and the United Kingdom, to understand how different contexts may influence their wellbeing. The findings revealed that an interplay of individual, social, and systemic factors contributed to participants’ wellbeing and their subsequent decision to remain or leave the profession.  
What the researchers did
 
● The participants in this study were 14 early-career secondary school teachers, 6 of which were based in Austria and 8 in the United Kingdom. Participants based in Austria were teaching English as a foreign language, while participants in the United Kingdom taught modern foreign languages. 
● Data were collected through one-off individual interviews aimed at understanding participants’ life histories, sources of stress and strength, social relationships, physical health, their perception of the status of languages in their contexts, and their plans about the future. 
● The process of data analysis involved the identification of themes around the factors related to wellbeing which could contribute to the retention or attrition of the early-career language teachers in our dataset. 
What the researchers found
 
● Key sources of stress for our participants at the start of their career were a mismatch between their expectations and realities of teaching, an excessive workload, and difficulties in managing the balance between their personal and professional lives. 
● Through gaining classroom experience, most participants gradually let go of their initial perfectionism, they acquired confidence in their teaching abilities, and developed strategies to better manage the boundaries between their personal and professional lives, which positively influenced their sense of wellbeing and their intention to remain in the profession. 
● The relationships with students, colleagues, mentors, and head teachers appeared to play a critical role in shaping the participating teachers’ perceptions of wellbeing. Mentorship and support from more experienced colleagues and school administrators were key resources sustaining their motivation and commitment to the profession throughout this particular career phase. 
● The comparison between the two settings has shown how educational policies, as well as the status of language teaching per se and for specific languages contributed to shaping our participants’ wellbeing and their decision to remain in the profession. 
Things to consider
 
● Findings suggest that early-career teachers would benefit from receiving practical guidance and clear instructions regarding the demands and responsibilities of their roles, in order to reduce the mismatch between their initial expectations about teaching and their actual classroom experiences. Furthermore, language teacher training programs could equip early-career teachers with explicit strategies to manage and regulate their wellbeing, in order to prevent attrition in the long-term. 
● By deliberately comparing the two settings, our study enabled an understanding of how early-career language teachers experience their wellbeing within their own contexts. Further research should be conducted in different educational settings to understand what other systemic factors may contribute to teachers’ decision to leave or stay in the profession. 