
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In language classrooms in many contexts worldwide, the focus is predominantly on linguistic expression, that is, learning to put the foreign/world language in use appropriately, while the topics chosen usually avoid ‘difficult’ issues. Teachers teach verbs, tenses, vocabulary, prepositions, grammar and so on. This study complements this linguistic focus by saying that language learners also need to be given the possibility to engage with ‘difficult’ issues such as trauma and pain, and express feelings associated with them. This study argues that an exclusive focus on language is insufficient in language classrooms and needs to be supported by artistic expression related to painful themes. It is suggested that this way of language teaching enriches students’ in-depth understandings and feelings. 
What the researchers did
 
● They studied a second year English language course in 2019 and 2020 with 40 college students each, totalling 80 students. The students were all enrolled in an English teaching and/or translation five-year program at a national public university in Argentina. 
● They explored how the representation of a social and historical trauma, namely the Holocaust, could become the theme in an English language classroom in higher education and how the students’ discomforting feelings triggered by the theme could be productive. They enabled both linguistic and artistic modes of expression in the classroom. 
● The students read the graphic novel Maus I: a survivor's tale. My father bleeds history written by Spiegelman and published in 1991. 
● The students re-designed the original book cover using artistic means (e.g., drawings, paintings). 
● They also designed and implemented a civic action with the aim of channelling the discomforting feelings of suffering, horror, and pain associated with the Holocaust in transformative and healing ways and make a contribution to society. 
● Looking at the students’ book covers and civic actions, the researchers analyzed their emotional engagement with the discomforting theme paying attention both to linguistic and artistic expression. 
What the researchers found
 
● The students were deeply mobilized by the discomforting theme and responded emotionally to it using linguistic expression but also artistic means such as drawings and paintings. 
● The painful theme became an opportunity for students to develop empathy, solidarity, and hope. They did so by planning and carrying out civic actions in their local community. For instance, they created and shared a video in an educational platform; gave a live presentation using social media; designed awareness-raising posters and a collage; created social media stories and posts; surveyed people; recruited volunteers to combat hunger in their city; and created a CD with music tracks, lyrics, and a CD cover.  
Things to consider
 
● Creative modes of expression have a place in language classrooms and can complement linguistic expression particularly when painful themes are addressed. 
● It remains to be seen whether this kind of language education is feasible in other contexts beyond this Argentinian setting. 
● Encouraging students to engage in civic action about painful themes during their learning poses ethical concerns that need to be addressed. For instance, what is a ‘valid’ action? Are students put at risk? What are the challenges and risks involved? How can teachers be prepared to address and minimize them? 