
What this research was about and why it is important 
: Foreign language exposure-track (FLEX) programs provide students with exposure to a second/world language (L2) for an average of 40-50 minutes per week. The goal of FLEX programs is to expose students to the target L2 and culture; they do not have explicit goals related to L2 development. As a result, researchers have yet to investigate the nature of potential L2 development in the context of FLEX programs. This study sought to explore to what extent learners’ L2 develops in a FLEX program. Specifically, students from an L2 Spanish FLEX program completed two picture-description tasks, one self-expression task, and one task intended to measure their understanding of the concept of language (Piaget, 1929). They performed these tasks twice, once toward the end of the fall and once toward the end of the spring semester. The study found learners to demonstrate greater engagement with the L2, greater use of the L2, and greater understanding of the arbitrary nature of form and meaning connections, a measure of emerging bilingualism. 
What the researchers did
: 
● Learners were 12 Spanish FLEX program students in grades pre-kindergarten to 5th, aged 4 to 12. 
● Learners completed two picture-description tasks, one self-expression task, and Piaget’s (1929) Sun-Moon Problem in a fall and subsequent spring semester. In Piaget’s (1929) Sun-Moon Problem, investigators asked learners whether the names of the sun and moon could be switched (yes), what the thing in the sky at night would be called if they were switched (sun), and what the sky would look like at night if they were switched (dark). Correct answers to these questions (as provided in parentheses) are indicative of the extent to which learners understand that words are arbitrary; that is, that words themselves are not related to the meanings they represent. Previous studies have shown that bilingual children develop this understanding sooner than monolinguals. 
● Researchers analyzed: o Learners’ engagement with Spanish (# of Spanish words produced, # of times Spanish was used to talk about Spanish, and a ratio of the first divided by the second), o Learners’ oral production in the L2 (# of novel Spanish words produced in the information-gap tasks) o Learners’ responses to the questions in Piaget’s (1929) Sun-Moon Problem o Learners’ use of Spanish/English on a written self-expression “Who am I” task. o Learners’ performance on the aforementioned tasks in the fall and spring semester were compared 
What the researchers found
: 
● On average, learners’ performance on all measures improved modestly from the fall to the spring, demonstrating that, for this sample FLEX context, L2 development did occur. o Learners produced more Spanish words in the spring. o Learners took more “turns” in Spanish in the spring semester (i.e., demonstrated greater behavioral engagement), meaning that they chose to speak in Spanish more often. o Learners used Spanish to correct themselves and adjust their speech more often (i.e., demonstrated greater cognitive engagement) in the spring. o Learners’ produced more correct responses to Piaget’s (1929) Sun-Moon Problem in the spring. 
● Furthermore, the greater the number of years the learners had participated in the FLEX program, the better their performance on all measures. 
Things to consider
 
● This study indicates that L2 learning did occur in this FLEX program, though the gains may be modest. 
● Further research is needed to corroborate these findings, and to determine what kinds of instructional strategies lead to the most L2 learning in FLEX programs. 