
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Second language learners can experience a range of emotions, from enjoyment, achievement, pride, relief, and fulfillment to anxiety, isolation, self-doubt, self-blame, guilt, shame, and decreased self-esteem. Even a seemingly simple misunderstanding in daily life—at a Burger King, for example—may evoke strong feelings. These emotional realities contrast with a common assumption that second language learning is about mastering grammar and vocabulary, that is primarily cognitive endeavors akin to solving math equations. Surprisingly, until recently the emotional realities of study abroad have mostly remained in private narratives, instead of a theoretical understanding. This case study traced a Chinese student’s trajectory in his first three semesters in a US university for a holistic understanding of how emotions play out in his adaptation process. His stories illustrated how reframing his emotional struggles allowed him to make a long-term commitment to second language learning and strengthen or negotiate his beliefs, learning strategies, and writer identity. Thus, they revealed the nuanced ways he developed English as a second language and successfully socialized into a new linguistic environment. What the researcher did 
● Multiple sources of data were collected: (1) a face-to-face interview, (2) writing samples for the course English as a Second Language Composition, including 5 autobiographical poems, a Definition-Description essay about his study abroad experience, and reflective writing samples, and (3) observations of Composition courses in the first and second semesters. 
● Wei (pseudonym), a Chinese student (male), came to the US to obtain a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science. Initially, he was conditionally admitted to the university because his TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) score was around 70 (iBT), which fell just below the level for admission. However, he was fully matriculated in the university after the first semester. What the researcher found 
● Wei’s stories indicate how fleeting moments can have enduring impacts on his motivation and perseverance, which might be magnified or alleviated. Thus, the findings revealed that emotionality is essential in a successful study abroad experience. 
● Wei’s successful socialization was partly because he was willing to open his vulnerability by seeking help (e.g., from his teachers and the writing center), although he felt embarrassed and uneasy. Feelings themselves may not yield a desirable outcome. However, Wei’s subsequent reflection on negative emotions, the reasons, and the impacts helped him redefine those emotions. This fruitful interplay of vulnerability and reflection allowed for positive attitudes, leading to active social interactions in various communities: initiating meetings with professors, volunteering at the Family Resource Center to help the poor, and working part-time, etc. 
● Study abroad to him was a process of constructing a multilingual identity. That is, while Wei had valued the immersive experience in the English-speaking environment, he adjusted this belief when he realized that the synergistic use of the two languages effectively represented his voice. For example, he found working with a Chinese consultant at the writing center very useful because they productively used two languages (English and Chinese). This sense of empowerment transformed him into a writer who could utilize all the linguistic repertoires for communicative goals and logical thinking. 
Things to consider
 
● It is imperative to help emotionally charged experiences become beneficial, not detrimental. Thus, it is important to recognize the mediating role of reflection and create opportunities to reflect on potential negative emotions that frequently emerge from second language learning and use. 
● One such pedagogical implementation may be integrating autobiographical writing and reflective practice in the second language curriculum, a potentially favorable combination of second language learning and creative writing. 
● Educators need to consider encouraging learners to use all the linguistic resources—learners’ first language and second language, for instance—instead of forcing them to use only the target language. 