
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Metacognitive instruction is a teaching approach which seeks to develop learners’ ability to regulate their own learning through self-reflection and self-monitoring. With its promising benefits for learning, the idea has been widely applied by EFL researchers and practitioners. However, the evidence for its effectiveness from tertiary (post-school) EFL contexts is still unclear as studies comparing previous studies’ findings (sytheses) in this field remain rare. Therefore, this study adopted a systematic review approach to identify all relevant studies and summarise the findings of the included studies through narrative and statistical analyses. The results affirm the advantages of applying metacognitive instruction to EFL learners as well as indicate a need for more rigorous studies on the topic.  
What the researchers did
 
● Seven data sources were searched and 2,942 records of past research were identified. 
● A pre-specified criteria was used to screen for relevant studies. Studies without a comparison group, conducted in non-EFL contexts, or not working with tertiary students were excluded. Finally, 29 studies were included in the analysis. 
● The statistical results reported in the included studies were summarised to estimate the overall impact of the metacognitive interventions. The reported results were also analysed by themes to reflect the benefits and challenges of metacognitive instruction in EFL contexts. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, metacognitive instruction has a strong potential for improving the English proficiency of EFL learners. The principal advantages of the approach are its capacity to raise students’ awareness of the available strategies and potential to enhance learners’ ability to monitor their own learning. 
● The prominent features fundamental to successful interventions are explicit instruction, clear instructional sequencing and the focus on application of, as opposed to knowledge about, metacognitive skills.  
Things to consider
 
● The promotion of metacognitive skills has been found to be beneficial for EFL learners. However, the evidence of its effectiveness remains indefinite because of the limitations in the data quality of the included studies. To secure a more overarching overview of the impact of metacognitive interventions for EFL learners, more robust investigations are still needed. 
● Despite the aim to promote student’s self-regulated learning, teachers’ support is also crucial. Support such as giving demonstrations, providing worked examples and giving feedback can facilitate learners’ attempts to self-regulate. 