
What this study was about and why it is important With the start of the pandemic in 2020, language teaching suddenly had to be moved online. The current mixed-methods study investigates learners’ experiences of foreign language anxiety in this novel, emergency setting as opposed to their experience in on-site classes. In combining a web-based survey with semi-structured interviews this study paints a detailed picture of the nature of foreign language anxiety in emergency remote teaching. Interestingly, while general foreign language anxiety seems to decrease in the emergency online setting, the reasons for learners to be anxious in their emergency online classes are different than in their on-site classes. Increased insecurity related to new technology, requirements, and the learning environment is most conducive to foreign language anxiety in emergency remote settings. 
What the researchers did
 
● We conducted a mixed-methods study based on a web-based survey and semi-structured interviews. 
● For the web-based survey we asked 437 tertiary-level students to rate their experiences with foreign language anxiety twice, for their foreign language classes before the pandemic and for their remotely taught classes during the first lockdown in 2020. 
● For the semi-structured interviews, we invited 21 students back who had also taken part in the web-based survey. 
● The mixed-methods design of the study allowed us, on the one hand, to analyse significant differences in learners’ overall foreign language anxiety, and on the other hand, to better understand how learners describe their feelings in the foreign language classroom in their own words. 
What the researchers found
 
● The quantitative data shows a significant decrease in students’ foreign language anxiety in emergency remote teaching as compared to in-person classes. A detailed analysis on item level revealed that while some anxiety-inducing factors were significantly lower in the emergency online setting (e.g. sense of peers’ superiority, anxiety despite being well-prepared), others increased (feeling of embarrassment to volunteer answers in the foreign language class). 
● The analysis of the qualitative data showed, firstly, that participants reported more reasons for foreign language anxiety in emergency remote classes than in on-site classes and, secondly, that the sources of anxiety were different for both settings. While in on-site classes the most frequently mentioned anxiety-inducing factors included contributing in class and being anxious about others speaking the foreign language better, in emergency remote settings learners were more anxious about the use of technology and the uncertainty about requirements. 
Things to consider
 
● While the quantitative analysis showed a decrease in foreign language anxiety in emergency remote settings, taking into consideration the findings of the qualitative study it seems that learners did experience high levels of anxiety in emergency remote teaching; however, the sources of anxiety that are typical for in-person classes and that are covered in the standardized foreign language anxiety scale we used seem to be less relevant. 
● Our findings suggest that uncertainty (about new technology, novel requirements in an unfamiliar online setting) and an increase in workload contributed to an increase in anxiety in emergency remote settings. 
● Generally, while learners experienced foreign language anxiety less intensely, the emergency remote setting affected the nature of anxiety. 
● We suggest, based on the findings of this study, that student-centredness, active collaboration and participation are highly relevant in remotely taught classes to ensure that learners feel connected and are engaged.  
● As our study was conducted during the first lockdown, the anxiety linked to technology might have decreased throughout the pandemic as learners and their teachers might have adapted to this new setting and might have used it more successfully. Furthermore, it should be investigated whether technology as an anxiety-inducing factor is as relevant in regular online classes as it proved to be in the emergency online setting.  