
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Vocabulary knowledge is important for all aspects of second language (L2) learning. The amount of new vocabulary that can be picked up through listening, however, is usually limited. In the classroom, teachers can enhance vocabulary learning through activities that allow learners to pay attention to the new vocabulary by, for example, giving explicit instruction about word meanings orally. However, it is unclear whether increasing the number of times learners receive explicit instruction about a word would lead to better learning and how far learners of different L2 proficiency levels benefit from such repetitions. This study involved high school Chinese learners of English. The researcher investigated how vocabulary learning was affected by listening to three different types of explicit vocabulary instruction for words repeated four, five, seven, and nine times respectively and how learners’ pre-existing vocabulary knowledge and listening proficiency affected how well they benefited from repetitions. Findings suggest that at least seven repetitions were needed for successful learning to take place and learners with lower listening proficiency benefited more from increasing the number of repetitions than their peers with higher listening proficiency. 
What the researchers did
 
● 98 learners from three classes participated in a 12-week classroom intervention. Each class received a different type of explicit vocabulary instruction. 
● Before the intervention, participants were assessed on their pre-existing vocabulary knowledge, listening proficiency, and their knowledge of the 20 words to be taught. 
● All 20 words were taught in the first three intervention sessions and revisited in the following six review sessions. 
● Five words were repeated four times, five repeated five times, five repeated seven times, and the remaining five repeated nine times. 
● One week after the final review session, learners were tested on their knowledge of the 20 words once again. 
What the researchers found
 
● Regardless of the different types of explicit vocabulary instruction, vocabulary learning was improved by increasing the number of repetitions. 
● At least seven repetitions are needed for successful vocabulary learning to take place through listening to explicit instruction. 
● Learners’ listening proficiency was an important factor influencing how well they benefited from repetitions. 
● Less proficient listeners benefited to a greater extent than their more proficient peers when the number of repetitions increased. 
● Regardless of the number of repetitions, there was a consistent advantage in favour of learners with a lower level of pre-existing vocabulary even when the number of repetitions was as low as four. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers should consider incorporating repetitions when teaching vocabulary through listening to explicit instruction. 
● When planning vocabulary learning activities, teachers need to include at least seven repetitions of the new words to promote maximal learning effects. 
● Learners’ existing listening proficiency needs to be taken into account when teaching new vocabulary and designing learning tasks, in particular for tasks that require learners to learn from listening. Material: Materials are freely available at https://www.iris-database.org/iris/app/home/detail?id=york:937834 