
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Since 2008, more than one hundred thousand refugees from Burma/Myanmar have resettled in the US. But studies on their participation in US public schools are rare. These families are coming from a very different school system in which rote memorization is valued and parents usually are not empowered to question their children’s teachers. How do these families navigate a new education system and communicate with school personnel? How can US school systems serve them better? What the researcher did 
● 
● I am a white American academic who learned Burmese for my doctoral studies on the education of Burmese refugees in Thailand, and I work as a Burmese-language interpreter for the public school system of a small midwestern city on an as-needed basis. In 2017-2018, I used this role as the basis for an ethnographic study in which I was a participant observer in a series of about 40 interactions, such as parent-teacher conferences and IEP meetings. 
● Participants included 17 school staff members, 8 parents, 4 students, and 1 service provider. 
● I took fieldnotes during and after these interactions, and I also had follow-up conversations with participants about them; I also did several classroom observations and conducted “member checks” with participants. 
● Using a “grounded theory” approach, I generated the theory that a “language border” (as opposed to “barrier”) exists where cultural misunderstandings may occur as words and concepts are translated from one language to another. What the researcher found 
● Certain words came up in family-school interactions that were difficult to translate between English and Burmese; these words form what I call a “language border” where cultural misunderstandings may occur, and where parents and school personnel “negotiate for meaning” to make themselves understood, changing their own ideas in the process. 
● The Burmese word leinma dè [lane-MA-day] can be translated as “respectful” or “polite,” and it describes young people who are obedient to people who are above them in the social hierarchy, such as parents and teachers. Having children who are leinma dè is important to many Burmese refugee parents, perhaps even more important to them than their children’s academic progress. 
● US teachers often described Burmese refugee students as “shy” and advised that they speak up more in class. But the Burmese translation of that word, shet tet dè [shet-TET-day], does not have a negative connotation; it describes a youth who shows proper restraint and can figure things out without bothering adults. In many Burmese classrooms, students chant in unison after the teacher and aren’t expected to speak alone, whereas in US classrooms they are expected to raise their hands to ask for help or share ideas.  
● Burmese parents sometimes described their children as pyin dè [PYIN-day], which can be translated as “lazy.” This surprised US teachers who saw these children as diligent. Burmese schooling usually involves children memorizing and chanting aloud their textbooks each evening, whereas US schools typically assign elementary schoolers less than 30 minutes of silently completed homework. Some teachers compromised by assigning additional homework at parent request. 
● Anadè [AH-nah-day] is a Burmese word for a sense of obligation to others of higher status, and a dread of causing them inconvenience. Burmese refugee parents did not usually feel empowered to question school personnel, even when school requests created hardship. Schools should be aware that these families may interpret requests as commands and should convey alternative options clearly. 
Things to consider
 
● This research focused mostly on parent and teacher perspectives; future research should investigate the perspectives of Burmese refugee students, who may find themselves struggling to balance family and school expectations. 
● The difficulties and innovations in communication that Burmese refugee families and US school personnel display may correspond to similar “language borders” that occur between English and other languages of immigrant, refugee, or multilingual families. 
● It is crucial for US school personnel to value Burmese refugee families’ understandings of education and to seek to understand their goals for their children. 