
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The study examined how the age of starting to learn English as a Foreign Language (EFL) affects listening and reading skills of students from Year 5 (age 10-11) to Year 9 (age 14-15). The researchers investigated students starting EFL at age 6-7 years opposed to those starting EFL at 8-9 years old and compared their skills in listening and reading in years 5, 7, and 9. They found that learners with an earlier EFL start performed better in Years 5 and 9, but in Year 7 the students with a later EFL start scored higher. 
What the researchers did
 
● 2827 students from secondary schools in North-Rhine Westphalia, Germany participated in at least one of the three proficiency tests. 1519 students took part in all three assessments and were included in analyses. 
● The students were divided into late starters (starting EFL at age 8-9) and early starters (starting EFL at age 6-7) and both groups differed consequently in the amount of instruction received. 
● Progress in language proficiency was tested in assessments of listening and reading skills. Assessments took place in Years 5 (age 10-11), 7 (age 12-13) and 9 (age 14-15) of secondary school. In Years 5, 7 and 9, late starters had received 140, 444 and 710 lessons of EFL instructions respectively. Whereas early starters had taken 245, 549 and 815 EFL lessons by the respective school years. 
● The researchers collected and controlled data also on personal features: sex, first language (L1), cognitive abilities, cultural capital (i.e., number of books in students´ households), English grade in Year 8 and socioeconomic status (based on the families´ income). All tests for language skills had been used in previous studies and all data was collected in regular school lessons. 
What the researchers found
 
● 
● In Year 5 the early starters scored higher than the late starters in reading and hearing skills. In Year 7 the late starters had caught up with the early starters in both areas and gained more skills than the students starting EFL lessons in Year 1. In Year 9 a similar situation as in Year 5 appeared: The early starters scored higher than the late starters in language skills for reading and hearing and outperformed them again. 
● 
● Learner characteristics´ impact on English proficiency remained stable for gender, L1, grades, cognitive abilities, and cultural capital across Years 5-9. 
● The results showed that students´ language skill levels in Year 5 were stronger predictors for their results in Year 9. 
Things to consider
 
● The higher scores of Year 5 early starters can be attributed to the additional 105 lessons of English classes in elementary school. 
● The catching up of Year 7 late starters can possibly relate to the novelty of EFL learning in Year 1 in the context of the study and therefore the teachers’ missing experience and lack of materials for supporting the early starters´ level of English skills. 
● The results in Year 9 and the changed direction of development compared to the results of Year 7 cannot be assigned exactly to one course and different explanations are possible. A potential explanation is that English-teachers adapted their lessons better to the early starters within two years. An alternative hypothesis could be that earlier implicit language learning in elementary school may show long-term beneficial effects. 
● There are potential contextual factors on the data outcome, such as a difference in teaching methods between 
● elementary and secondary school EFL lessons. It would be beneficial to adjust materials and exercises in English classes to meet early starters´ needs. In addition, professional development for language teachers in secondary school is essential to meet the needs of early starters in EFL. 
● The results of the study showed long-term benefits to early EFL learning, but suggest that these students could be better served through more coordination between elementary and secondary schools to understand students’ prior language learning experience and adapt the curriculum accordingly.  