
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigated the ways in which Spanish second language (L2) learners interacted when participating in communicative language learning activities. The findings showed that students oriented toward a view of language learning as the acquisition of grammar and vocabulary rather than how to meaningfully interact with Spanish speakers outside of the classroom. The ways in which learners expressed attitudes toward the language and its speakers indicated that learners’ preconceived perceptions of native Spanish speakers did not align with the social realities of Spanish-speaking communities in the U.S. and around the world. 
What the researchers did
 
● We analyzed transcripts of audio recordings and video footage in one intermediate-level high school L2 Spanish class in the midwestern U.S. 
● Participants were 12 Spanish L2 learners of Euro-American heritage, between the ages of 15-18 years 
● Data were originally collected for a study examining the learning of grammar in relation to the effectiveness of different instructional methods in Spanish classrooms 
● This study analyzed the data through a theoretical approach known as stancetaking to understand how learners represented and oriented toward expert and novice roles and attitudes toward the Spanish language and speakers 
What the researchers found
 
● Learners displayed epistemic stances, or claims to knowing Spanish grammar, which could be categorized as expert or novice identities in the second language. 
● When learners were required to use the target language in conversational activities, they displayed affective stances (emotional attitudes) that demonstrated disengagement from the activities, stereotypes of Hispanics, and a sense of distance and differentiation from Spanish-speaking communities. 
Things to consider
 
● Students reflected their understanding of the expectations for class activities by discussing grammatical knowledge that was deemed valuable for completing the tasks. 
● Learners’ displays of knowledge, or “expertise” of the Spanish grammar and vocabulary was juxtaposed against sometimes negative affective stances toward target-language communities. 
● Students’ often ungrammatical use of Spanish and jocular reference to native Spanish speakers may have responded to and fomented a space that seemed to treat Spanish as a foreign language and as an object of academic study, rather than a living local language used for social activity by people around them. 
● These findings point to a need for more inclusive content and a social justice-oriented approach in the classroom. 
● The classroom interactions that were analyzed are a product of the course’s curricular planning, classroom policies, and language ideologies toward the Spanish language. 
● More time gathering data in the classroom and participant testimonies would have provided greater insight into their particular beliefs and attitudes toward second language learning, and about interaction and engagement with multilingual and multicultural communities in general.  