
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In many classrooms, young learners write texts in a foreign language and receive direct corrections from their teachers. However, very few studies have investigated whether direct corrections actually help young writers improve. As an alternative feedback technique, teachers can also ask their leaners to compare their texts with a model text. Research has shown that young learners can notice vocabulary from model texts and incorporate it into a new draft. Finally, there are also a few studies which show that simply repeating a writing task can have certain benefits. It is also important to study young leaners’ motivation towards writing tasks and written feedback. It is known that the specific motivation that students display when performing a task greatly affects their performance and, in turn, their learning opportunities. Yet, task motivation has barely been explored, especially with young language learners. Therefore, this study compared three groups of young learners who carried out a writing task individually. One group performed the same task three times, another group received direct corrections and a third group was asked to compare their writing to two model texts. The performance and task motivation of the learners in the three groups was measured to gain a comprehensive understanding of the potential of these writing tasks. The findings can help understand what to expect from specific writing tasks in classroom contexts with young learners.  
What the researchers did
 
● 75 young learners (aged between 9 and 11) of English in a Spanish school were divided into three groups. 
● Over a period of three weeks, they performed three writing tasks individually. 
● The first week, they all had to write a story of 8-10 lines, based on 5 picture prompts. 
● One group wrote the same story three times, without receiving any feedback. 
● Another group first wrote the story, in the second week they compared their story to two model texts written by native speaking teachers of English, and in the third week they wrote the story again. 
● A third group first wrote the story, in the second week they received direct corrections from their teacher (all errors were crossed out and corrections were provided), and in the third week they wrote the story again. 
● Before and after each task, the learners indicated how motivated they felt by choosing a number from 1 to 10 on a motivation thermometer, and they circled one of 12 possible reasons to explain their chosen level, for example “because the task was easy”, “because I had fun doing the task” or “because the task was boring”. 
What the researchers found
 
● The learners who wrote the same story three times did not improve, but they were very motivated by the task and found it easy. 
● The learners who received direct corrections made fewer errors in the second draft and were also motivated by the task. 
● The learners who compared their text to the model texts used a wider range of vocabulary on their second draft. They also improved overall text quality, measured by a rubric which focused on how well they described the pictures and the use of linking words. 
● The learners who looked at the model texts were less motivated before writing the story the second time. However, after having written the story their motivation increased again. 
● The learners in the direct corrections and model groups felt they had learned something from the feedback. 
Things to consider
 
● The learners in this study made fewer errors after receiving direct corrections, and improved their vocabulary use and coherence with model texts, but we do not know if these improvements would be maintained over a longer period of time. 
● The learners were generally very motivated to carry out writing tasks and to receive feedback on them, even though model texts might sometimes be a little daunting for learners. It might help if teachers train learners to use model texts. 
● Repeating the same writing task can also be motivating, but it would be useful to combine task repetition with some kind of feedback. 