
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study aimed to answer the question: What motivates or limits school-aged Spanish heritage learners to participate in formal teaching of Spanish in Germany? The study begins with an overview of the well-established Spanish Heritage Language program, known as Aulas de Lengua y Cultura Españolas (ALCE). The principal objectives of the study were: determining the reasons why students enroll or abandon this program and proposing improvement measures to promote students’ and families’ participation. To achieve these purposes, a mixed quantitative and qualitative research methodology was used. Main teaching and organizational challenges are identified, which may be useful for heritage language teachers and institutions. 
What the researchers did
 
● 29 students of levels B2 and C1 (aged 16 – 18) completed a questionnaire exploring their view on the fostering and constraining factors of participation in the ALCE program. 
● Three focus groups were organized to add the families’ point of view. A total of 28 parents took part at the guided discussions in the German cities where most ALCE students are enrolled: Hamburg, Berlin, and Frankfurt. 
● An additional questionnaire was also sent to the families who had abandoned the program in order to investigate the reasons for dropping out of the program in more detail. It was fully completed by 92 families. In all three research tools, participants were also asked to suggest improvements for the ALCE program. 
● 
What the researchers found
 Fostering factors from the students’ point of view 
● The main reasons students gave for participating in Spanish Heritage instruction were: improve employability and obtain a language certificate; fulfil their parents’ requirement of attending lessons; to become more competent in written expression and academic language register; learn more about the family culture and, to a lesser extent, communicate with family and friends. 
● Main perceptions about students’ learning needs were also identified: reading, grammar, writing, vocabulary, culture, speaking and listening (listed in order of importance). Fostering factors from the families’ point of view 
● Families wanted their children to participate in ALCE-lessons, so that they can obtain a higher language proficiency and a wider range of language register, to learn more about Spanish culture, to socialize in the Spanish community, to obtain a language certificate and to get a better job in the future. Constraining factors according to students and families Incompatibility of timetables and family logistics. 
● 
● High workload at the regular school. 
● The assumption of a quite high level of expected proficiency in Spanish. 
● Lack of adaptation to students’ interests and age in teaching materials and practices. 
● A high heterogeneity of Spanish proficiency levels in the classroom. 
Things to consider
 
● Students and families agree on the fact that attending this program improves the student Spanish level and meets their learning needs. Specific studies to measure the perceived language improvement should be carried out. 
● Further research is to be conducted on the main areas of improvement detected in this study by the participants: designing motivating curricular materials and tasks according to students’ age and interests, teaching adequacy to low proficiency Spanish learners and multi-level groups, including more Spanish varieties (not only the Iberian one), as well as updating the online learning platform. 
● Further studies should consider which teaching proposals and practices best contribute to improve Spanish proficiency in formal and written registers. 
● From an organizational point of view, collaboration with German school authorities is key for this kind of programs to be successful. 