
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Language teachers are susceptible to emotional experiences daily because they find themselves having to teach more than just language. They must often teach students about the social, political and cultural aspects of that particular language while navigating workplace rules and policies. While there has been research that investigates particular emotions that language teachers feel, this study goes further to investigate what one language teacher does with his emotions when a new language policy, AB 705, is introduced at his school. The new policy requires that community colleges increase the probability that English as a second language (ESL) students finish English transfer level coursework within a three-year timeline. By adopting a poststructuralist perspective of emotions, where emotions are not simply individual reactions but a result of unequal power relations in professional settings, this study showcases how emotions can prompt language teachers to accumulate emotional capital by using empathy and spirituality. 
What the researchers did
 
● A poststructuralist view of emotions was used to analyze the implicit feeling rules (rules regarding how teachers should feel), and emotion labor (a clash between feeling rules and personal and professional experience), that the new language policy created for the participant, Alan (pseudonym). 
● Emotional capital was used to show what Alan did with the feeling rules and the emotion labor from the new policy. 
● A one-year case study that focused on one part time community college teacher, Alan, who participated in interviews and email correspondence and provided journal prompts, recordings of his teaching, and policy documents for analysis. 
What the researchers found
 
● The implicit feeling rule from the policy was to trust the students’ judgement in self placing and to trust that the school would not fire him due to possibly low enrollment numbers.  
● There was emotion labor for Alan when it came to students’ ability to self-place into the correct ESL level, the limited timeline of the policy and his feelings of insecurity and vulnerability from being a part time instructor whose course could be forfeited to full time faculty.  
● Alan’s negative feelings of insecurity were a result of the unequal power between full- and part-time teachers at his school. 
● Instead of feeling pessimistic about his future at his school, Alan practiced empathy towards the students and the school to understand where they were coming from. He also drew from his spirituality to have a positive outlook about his future. Both strategies allowed him to gain emotional capital to better manage his emotions for future difficult experiences at work.  
● Alan’s accumulation of emotional capital reflected its generative nature. In order to gain more emotional capital, he had to take on more emotion labor; however once acquired, the emotional capital resources could be used to better aid in future emotion labor. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that there is agentive power in the field of language teacher emotions beyond simply being categorized as a negative or positive feeling. 
● The results highlighted how top-down language policies have implicit feeling rules that teachers must navigate within the roles and flexibility they are afforded. Not all teachers have the ability to resist or reform the feeling rules. For some teachers, their only option is to align with the feeling rules by managing their emotions. 
● The study recommended more research on different types of language teachers and their emotional capital accrual at different stages of policy implementation. 
● Since the policy happened outside of Alan’s classroom space, there was no investigation between policy and instruction. Future research might explore how policy shapes teachers’ classroom practice. 