
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second language speaking tasks can be challenging. Because of limited second language resources and lack of sufficient planning time, learners’ task performances can be underwhelming, both in terms of quality of ideas and the language used to express them. To improve performance, teachers might allow learners time to plan for speaking tasks. While planning in the first language for a second language speaking task can lead to the generation of more ideas than planning in the second language, learners often struggle to express those ideas in task performances. Additionally providing a rehearsal stage before performance may help students prepare the language they need. This study, conducted in two online classrooms, revealed that when learners planned in their first language and then rehearsed for the task, task performances did not contain significantly more ideas than when learners planned for a task in their second language, but ideas expressed during the task were significantly more novel. The results suggest that the benefit of first language planning is related primarily to enhanced creativity in task performances, and this is optimized when strategic planning is followed by a rehearsal stage. 
What the researchers did
 
● Forty Japanese English as a Foreign Language university students from two intact online classrooms were put into pairs and planned for two second language tasks in two conditions using online editing software (Google Docs) and online conferencing software (Zoom). 
● The first condition involved collaborative strategic planning in the second language, which was followed by a task rehearsal; the second condition involved collaborative strategic planning in the first language, which was followed by a task rehearsal 
● Learners performed tasks individually in the second language after planning and rehearsal. 
● The researchers examined the creativity (novelty) and quantity of ideas planned, rehearsed, and used in task performances. A questionnaire asked participants about the advantages and disadvantages of each planning condition.  
What the researchers found
 
● When learners planned in the first language, there were more ideas planned, and more planned ideas were used in rehearsal, than when learners planned in the second language. 
● There was no difference in the total number of ideas used in task performances when learners planned in the first language and when they planned in the second language. 
● After learners planned in the first language, they focused on experimenting with language to express their ideas during rehearsal, leading to more novel ideas used in their task performances. 
● Learners reported that the first language was more beneficial for planning ideas; the second language was useful for practicing the language used to express ideas; and online synchronous communication facilitated collaboration during planning. 
Things to consider
 
● Strategic pre-task planning in the first language followed by rehearsal led to highly creative ideas being used in second language task performances. This was because learners were given an opportunity to focus on second language expression after generating ideas. 
● The first language was useful as an idea-generating tool (strategic planning) and as a tool to negotiate meaning and help learners decide expressions to use during the task (rehearsal). 
● Because a learner’s ability to use planned content is limited by the time restrictions of short tasks, use of the first language in planning might be especially useful for a series of connected tasks or for project-based learning situations where high levels of creativity and autonomy are important. 
● Future research might further explore how technology enhances collaboration during pre-task planning. 