
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The study tested the idea that infants learn the words for the objects of their play—experiences that are meaningful in everyday life. The connection between everyday play and vocabulary growth has never been tested outside the laboratory setting. Here, we observed infants in their everyday home environments to determine if the words in babies’ vocabularies and the words they produce during interactions with the mother refer to the things that infants manipulate and mothers responsively name. Findings support the tight connection between object play, mother naming, and the words in infants’ vocabularies and everyday speech. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recorded 2 hours (in one session) of natural activity by following infant and mother with a camera at home. 
● Thirty-two mothers from middle- to upper-class backgrounds in New York City participated with their 18- to 23-month-old babies. 
● Researchers recorded everything that mother and infant said during the observation and listed the specific objects that infants manipulated at home (e.g., book, box, banana, cup). 
● At the end of the visit, mothers reported on the words that their young infant produced. 
● Researchers compared the list of play objects (comprising 245 unique objects) to the words that mothers named, the words that the mothers reported that the infants knew, and the words that the infants produced. 
What the researchers found
 
● Infants’ vocabularies tended to include the words for objects in the home environment that infants manipulated and mothers named. 
● Infants tended to name objects that they manipulated and mothers named. 
● Objects that were common in infant vocabularies were manipulatable objects such as book and cup. 
Things to consider
●  Infants play an active role in their word learning: Their interactions with the world guide their vocabulary growth. 
● Infants may be more likely to learn the words for objects that they can reach and interact with at home. 
● Infants may also be more likely to learn the words for objects that caregivers name. 
● Connections between infant play and word learning highlight the importance of caregivers and educators attending to the objects of children’s interest by providing responsive input. 
● However, this study cannot claim that object manipulation is either necessary or sufficient for language development; indeed, infants with motor delays may find alternative pathways to learn object names. 