
What this research was about and why it is important 
 At least 85% of the residents of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are expatriates: they come from all over the world, the majority from South Asia, and work in all economic and social sectors. Such a diverse population brings with it a diverse set of languages. While Arabic remains the official language, English has taken on the role of a lingua franca among speakers of different languages in the country. This study examined speakers’ attitudes towards the competing roles of English and Arabic among Emiratis and non-Emiratis with relation to solidarity and status attitudes. It provides a wealth of information pertaining to speakers’ language repertoires, social backgrounds, language use patterns, and speakers’ attitudes towards both Arabic and English in the UAE. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited 692 students from a UAE university who filled in an online questionnaire. 
● The questionnaire asked questions about social background, languages used (with whom and in what settings), language attitudes and migration histories. 
● We used statements about English and Arabic to reveal language attitudes. Participants indicated whether they agreed or disagreed with them and to what extent. These statements focused on the languages’ real-world (e.g., employment) benefits (the status dimension) and on participants’ feelings towards them (the solidarity dimension). 
● Responses to each statement (agreement, neutral, disagreement) were juxtaposed with binary variables based on citizenship and dominant language groupings as well as gender. 
● We used the chi-squared test of independence to test whether the differences between the groups reached statistical significance. 
What the researchers found
 The responses to the questionnaires showed that: 
● Most students spoke 2 or 3 languages; English and Arabic were the most widely reported, followed by Hindi, Urdu, and French. The most common language combinations were Arabic/English, followed by Arabic/English/French. 
● Emiratis and Arabs from other countries expressed the same solidarity attitudes to English: overall, they agreed that English lends itself well to express feelings and emotions, and it was an important part of their personal identity. However, both groups indicated that English was not a significant part of their cultural identity. 
● Non-Arabs agreed with Arabs that Arabic would increase their chances to find employment. However, they did not think Arabic was as important to get far in life as the Arabs did. 
● Participants with Arabic as their dominant language had stronger positive associations with Arabic in the solidarity dimension than participants who were English-dominant. 
● English did not act as a solidarity code differently among South Asians and other participants. 
● Male and female Emiratis showed the same attitudes towards both English and Arabic in the status dimension. Additionally, there was general agreement that English offers more opportunities and access to better jobs, more recognition, and more returns in terms of symbolic and material resources. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings have many implications for language planning, language policy, and educational reforms. 
● We found much linguistic diversity in our sample, with a clear trend towards English and Arabic. 
● Participants’ citizenship and ethnicity had an impact on their attitudes towards English and Arabic. 
● There was a difference between personal identity and cultural heritage: participants were quite happy to accept English for the former, but less so for the latter. 
● We expected South Asian expatriates to draw on English as an in-group solidarity language. However, we found they did not behave very differently from other groups. 
● The UAE is undergoing important social changes which might also redefine traditional Emirati gender roles. In fact, our findings suggest that both men and women share the same evaluations of English and Arabic with regard to these languages’ importance in the workplace and in life. 