
What this research was about and why it is important 
  To communicate effectively in a second language, learners need sufficient vocabulary, but the best way to learn and to teach vocabulary is unclear. This study examined whether knowledge of language history can aid in the vocabulary learning process when learning a language that is historically related to a language that learners already speak. Although historically related languages share a large number of cognates, many cognates can be challenging to learn because of various historical changes that have taken place. Cognates are words in two languages that share a similar meaning, spelling, and pronunciation. For example, brother in English and Bruder in German. Learners who received instruction on language history learned more cognates than learners who did not receive this instruction. The knowledge of language history also allowed learners to predict the meaning of several cognates they had not encountered before. The results from this study suggest that instruction on language history, and in particular, on historical linguistics, may deserve a place in the second language classroom. What the researcher did 
● 35 English-speaking learners of German, enrolled in a third-semester German course at an American university, were assigned to one of two groups. 
● One group received 120 minutes of instruction on language history, focusing, in particular, on changes which have affected English-German cognates, such as changes in pronunciation (sound changes), and changes in meaning (semantic changes). 
● One group received 120 minutes of instruction in which learners were exposed to cognates through various reading and oral communication tasks without instruction on language history. 
● To test their vocabulary knowledge, learners carried out a translation task containing 63 cognates, three times throughout the semester (before the instruction and after the instruction). 
● 42 of the cognates were words which learners would encounter in their training sessions, and 21 were words which learners would not encounter in their training sessions. What the researcher found 
● Learners who received instruction on language history learned more cognates than learners in the comparison group. 
● Knowledge of the historical changes in pronunciation allowed learners to predict the meaning of several cognates they had not encountered before. 
● Although there were some non-native speakers of English, the first language of the learner had no effect on vocabulary learning nor the type of instruction. 
● Learners who did not receive instruction on language history were more susceptible to inference errors, and often overgeneralized or undergeneralized word meaning (e.g., writing ‘tooth’ as a translation of Zunge ‘tongue’). 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that learners can benefit from knowledge and instruction on historical changes in pronunciation and in meaning, suggesting that language history may deserve a place in the second language classroom when learning a language that is historically related to a language that learners already speak. 
● While this study focused on English-German cognates, knowledge of language history may also be beneficial for learners of other historically related languages. 
● Knowledge of historical changes in pronunciation and meaning may have allowed learners to establish an instant connection between the English words and the German cognate counterparts, accelerating the learning process. 
● More broadly, this study may add a new dimension to the meaning “applied historical linguistics,” with applications to the second language classroom. 