
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigated the relative importance that aural knowledge of single words and phrasal verbs have on English listening comprehension for higher and lower proficiency groups of Chinese learners of English. It also investigated these learners’ ability to recognize and provide a Chinese meaning for single words and phrasal verbs. The results inform English teachers and researchers of the impact this knowledge has on listening comprehension and thus indicates how much focus developing aural knowledge of single-words and phrasal verbs merits. This study is the first to our knowledge that investigated second language (L2) learners’ knowledge of aural single words and aural phrasal verbs as well as the relationship between these measures and L2 listening comprehension. Our results showed that there was a strong and positive relationship between single word knowledge and listening comprehension. There was also a positive relationship between phrasal verb knowledge and listening comprehension, but this relationship was not as strong. Also, learners demonstrated greater knowledge of single words than phrasal verbs.  
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers chose 81 phrasal verbs from a list of the most common phrasal verbs used in spoken English for creating the assessment. For the single-word test, verbs of equivalent frequency (based on a spoken corpus) to the phrasal verbs were selected to be able to compare these two types of word knowledge. 
● The test format allowed learners to hear the single word or phrasal verb in a brief sentence and write a Chinese meaning for the target item on the test paper. This format, although more difficult to score than multiple choice, is thought to provide a more valid assessment of word knowledge. 
● The research participants were 224 university English as a Foreign Language students (147 Male, 77 female) in China with a mean age of 20.8 years (max. 27 & min. 18). None were English majors and their English proficiency was low to intermediate (mainly A2 – B1 on the CEFR scale of English proficiency). 
● The participants all took an English listening comprehension test, an aural test of phrasal verb knowledge and an aural test of single-word knowledge. 
● The results were analyzed for correlational relationships between the test scores, statistically significant differences in test scores between the higher and lower proficiency students and the degree to which single-word and phrasal verb test scores could predict listening comprehension scores. 
What the researchers found
 
● Results indicated a positive and medium to strong correlation between aural single-word knowledge, aural phrasal verb knowledge and L2 listening comprehension. 
● Aural single-word knowledge was significantly greater than phrasal verb knowledge. 
● Learners in both proficiency groups scored under 50% on both the single-word and phrasal verb tests indicating the difficulty of the assessment task. Aural knowledge of single words was greater than that of phrasal verbs. 
● Aural single-word knowledge alone could predict approximately 39% of the variance in listening comprehension and phrasal verb knowledge contributed a smaller but also significant amount of predictive ability. 
Things to consider
 
● Knowledge of frequently used aural single-words and phrasal verbs may be underdeveloped for even intermediate second language learners of English. 
● Phrasal verb knowledge has a significant effect on listening comprehension and therefore deserves more instructional and research focus. 
● Knowledge of phrasal verbs may develop more slowly than single-word knowledge. 