
What this study was about and why it is important Many teachers think their students experience transformative moments when engaged in community-based language learning, but there is little research indicating which activities facilitate changes in students' beliefs, attitudes, and perceptions. Researchers in this study explored whether students associate particular activities in advanced World Language courses with transformative moments, and if so, whether these occurred in English or the target language, and whether there was a particular mode of communication that seemed to better support these changes. They found that the vast majority of students experienced transformative learning, and that perspective transformation most often occurred when students were engaged in a combination of classroom and community-based interpersonal activities in the target language. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 25 undergraduate students enrolled in two distinct advanced language courses (French and Spanish), each with a service-learning component. 
● Researchers administered pre- and post-semester surveys on changes in students' values, beliefs, and opinions, as adapted from King's (2009) Learning Activities Survey. 
● Researchers asked whether students experienced shifts in perspectives in the context of their class, in what setting, and to what interactions or activities they attributed the shifts. 
● Data analysis reviewed the quantitative survey results; researchers also reviewed qualitative responses to track emerging themes in students' responses. 
What the researchers found
 
● Most students self-reported a moment of transformative learning during the course, triggered by a combination of community interactions and classroom activities. Interpersonal modes were most impactful; presentational communication was least. 
● 
● Students indicated that work in the second language was most impactful. 
● Community interactions were not the sole drivers of transformative learning; classroom activities were key contributing factors. 
Things to consider
 In this study, students were enrolled in two distinct courses, making causation difficult. 
● 
● Given that students correlated writing activities in both English and the target language with perspective change, teachers may wish to support student writing in more structured ways       