
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The growth of international education in the early 21st century provided a context for cross-border teacher education. This brought with it the potential to increase supply of bilingual teacher education candidates and enhance second language education programs in schools in host countries. One such program was an Australia-China partnership in which masters and PhD students from China who were enrolled in the school of education at an Australian university spent two days each week as classroom volunteers in primary and secondary schools. This study investigated how these volunteers viewed themselves and their classroom experiences, and the factors that influenced their capacity to self-identify as teachers. The study found that volunteers’ images of themselves in Australian classrooms continuously changed in response to their inner voices and confidence, as well as their circumstances and relationships with others. What the researcher did 
● The researcher recruited 15 classroom volunteers. They were all new graduates from Chinese universities who had not been employed as teachers prior to their arrival in Australia. The volunteers were undertaking research in education at masters or PhD level. 
● Each volunteer participated in a one-hour interview about their Australian volunteering experience. 
● The researcher examined extended samples of volunteers’ language taken from interview transcripts to determine how volunteers saw themselves. What the researcher found 
● How volunteers saw themselves changed and shifted over time, influenced by unfamiliar classroom practices, confidence and relationships, which were particular to the experiences of individuals. 
● Volunteers used language in distinctive ways to describe their inner psychological views of themselves, their school experiences, and relationships with others. 
● Many volunteers regarded their Australian school experience as a context for seeing themselves (self-identifying) as teachers. 
● Different school contexts and relationships assisted and inhibited individuals’ capacity to self-identify as teachers. 
● Volunteers’ references to contrasting educational practices highlighted differences between their early school experiences in China and their present Australian experiences as causes of uncertainty and tension, yet potentially transformative. In the face of confusion and complexity each volunteer maintained an individual sense of who they were linked to the notion of teacher. For some, the sense of who they were was strengthened by concepts drawn from their linguistic and cultural backgrounds. 
● 
Things to consider
 
● Identity, or the way people see themselves, includes internal psychological factors and external influences. In this study, the interrelationship between internal and external experiences of who one is, was brought to light by analysing language. 
● Findings advance our understanding of how the inner psychological identity experience plays out for international university students volunteering in host country schools, justifying an explicit focus on identity to actively engage students in their individual learning processes. 