
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Research investigating vocabulary knowledge in the second language (L2) has mainly focused on receptive aspects (i.e., how vocabulary is used during reading and listening activities). However, very little research has examined the productive side of L2 vocabulary mastery, which is critical for speaking and writing activities. The aim of the present study is to examine the interrelationship between two types of vocabulary knowledge (single words and collocations) at the productive level. The results showed that there was an association between them, pointing to important implications for L2 vocabulary teaching and learning practices. 
What the researchers did
 
● Two gap-fill tests were developed to assess written productive knowledge of the most common words in English (divided into three levels: 1,000, 2,000, and 3,000). 
● Test 1 assessed knowledge of a sample of 20 individual words at each level. 
● Test 2 assessed collocation knowledge of 10 noun nodes at each level repeated twice to elicit verb + noun (e.g., They ____________ a chance to win) and adjective + noun collocations (e.g., This is a/an ____________ chance). 
● 27 L1-English speakers (average age 43) and 55 L2-English speakers (L1-Arabic; average age 20) completed the tests. 
● L2 speakers had a wide range of proficiencies, which was controlled for in the analysis. 
● We analyzed the relationship between the scores in both tests. 
● Collocation knowledge was analyzed in terms of three aspects: appropriacy (whether the collocation is commonly used in the language), frequency (how common the collocation is in the language), and strength (how strong the association is between the two words comprising the collocation). 
● We defined these three aspects of collocation knowledge based on evidence from the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA). 
What the researchers found
 
● The results of the L2 group showed limited productive knowledge of both words and collocations, lagging behind the knowledge exhibited by L1 speakers. 
● We found a relationship between knowledge of individual words and knowledge of collocations (appropriacy, frequency, and strength). 
● The learners’ productive knowledge of high frequency individual words predicted (i.e., explained) the learners’ productive knowledge of collocations. 
Things to consider
 
● Language users who know more individual words productively are more likely to produce appropriate collocations that are highly frequent and stronger. 
● Language programs should support L2 learners in their endeavor to develop their productive knowledge of words. 
● This should in turn lead to enhanced L2 collocation knowledge. 
● The study is limited in that it only covered the most frequent 3,000 words in English. 
● More research is needed to examine ways in which productive L2 knowledge of words and collocations can be improved. 