
What this research was about and why it is important 
 We examined whether the emotions of anxiety and enjoyment had an effect on perceived proficiency when learning a foreign language. We examined what the effect is of different levels of anxiety and enjoyment on perceived proficiency, for example, what is the difference in the perceived proficiency of individuals who have high levels of anxiety and high levels of enjoyment vs. individuals who have low levels of anxiety and high levels of enjoyment. We found that the relationship between the emotions and perceived proficiency can be complex and non-linear. Anxiety had a greater influence in the relationship with self-perceived proficiency, even though both enjoyment and anxiety contributed. 
What the researchers did
 
● Collected data from 1039 foreign language learners (average age 24) through questionnaires that measured their enjoyment and anxiety when learning a foreign language. Participants came from a variety of education levels (high school and university) and had learned various FLs (e.g. English, French, Spanish, Dutch and German). 
● The data was analysed to explore the effects of emotions on perceived proficiency. 
What the researchers found
 
● When foreign language learners experience the positive emotion of enjoyment and the negative emotion of anxiety at opposite levels (e.g. ↑ enjoyment ↓ anxiety), there is a linear relationship with perceived proficiency, i.e. higher enjoyment and the lower anxiety results in higher perceived proficiency in the foreign language. 
● When foreign language learners experience the positive emotion of enjoyment and the negative emotion of anxiety at the same levels (e.g. equally high levels of anxiety and enjoyment at the same time), there is a non-linear relationship with perceived proficiency of the foreign language. 
● The non-linear relationship forms a concave shape, with extreme levels of enjoyment and anxiety experienced at the same time resulting in moderate to high perceived proficiency.  
● The negative impact of anxiety also outweighs the positive impact of enjoyment when experienced at extreme levels. 
Things to consider
 
● The relationship between emotions and language learning may not be linear. Negative and positive emotions may have competing effects and outweigh each other. 
● Even though positive emotions have a positive effect on language learning, positive emotions cannot fully undo the harm of negative emotions such as anxiety. 
● Teachers need to try to reduce anxiety in the classroom to minimise the limiting affect of anxiety on positive emotions and learning. 
● This may include less prescriptive approaches with a strong focus on grammar and pronunciation, which have been found to contribute to the level of anxiety in learners or by implementing learning strategies such as self-driven learning, learning through song, and multimedia technologies. Material, data, open access article: 