
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examined how the use of various reference forms in Chinese English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners’ English written narratives developed over time. Reference forms are ways of introducing and referring to entities in a text. The example in the box shows different forms (underlined), such as the child and she that all refer to the same thing. An example of various reference forms: There once was a young child who wanted some delicious fruit from a tree. The child noticed that the fruit was out of reach. She discovered the problem and  thought of a way to fix it. The goal of the study was to verify the generalizability of a theory of how reference forms are typically used (called the topic continuity scale) in second language (L2) written data, and to provide an insight into how reference acquisition varies within learners and between learners. It also provided a new ground for testing the effect of L2 proficiency by analyzing longitudinal English written data from learners with a typologically different first language. The study found that the general distribution of referential forms followed the cross-linguistic topic continuity scale, indicating the dominant role of discourse context in referring. Yet, quite a few instances also deviated from this scale, suggesting that other factors, including first language (L1) influence and learners’ cognitive pressure, can influence use patterns. In addition, with an increase in English exposure, L2 learners’ use of the typical referring form in each context increased over time. Finally, the study showed individual variability in developmental paths of L2 referential choices. 
What the researchers did
 
● We used three series of cartoon pictures for three narrative writing sessions with 33 Chinese EFL learners at two Chinese universities. Each narrative used six pictures that were connected in content and together created a whole story. We used the written narratives elicited through these three picture sequences description tasks as data for the study. 
● We coded the data for a variety of referring forms. 
● We firstly calculated how often each type of referential form was used in each context and then computed the percentage of each type of referential forms in each context in relation to the total amount of reference in each context. 
● The learners’ texts were qualitatively analyzed to highlight occasions where learner production differed from the topic continuity scale. 
● We used a number of statistical tests to investigate the effect of language exposure on referential production at the group and individual level., 
What the researchers found
 
● Chinese EFL learners’ referential choices showed variation within learners’ written texts as well as variation between different learners. They mostly followed the cross-linguistic topic continuity scale. 
● With an increase in L2 exposure, Chinese EFL learners were more proficient in matching the referring forms with appropriate context. 
● The developmental paths of L2 referential choices showed individual variability. 
Things to consider
 
● These findings indicate that variation pervades in L2 referential production and language development is nonlinear and individually variant. The finding of inter/intraindividual variability implies that teachers would better view language learners as unique individuals and the process of language acquisition as dynamic and interconnected. Therefore, besides class-level instruction, teachers can provide personalized feedback to meet the specific demand of each individual learner and provide different types of assistance at different learning stages. 
● Furthermore, considering learners’ variation in performance, teachers should be more positive about students’ errors which may occur in one case and disappear in another case and be more careful in judging students’ achievement of learning a language item since one correct performance in one snapshot does not mean achievement forever. 