
What this research was about and why it is important 
 With the burst of mis/disinformation in our modern era, there is little doubt of the importance of improving readers’ abilities to read texts critically. In most cases, we either consume texts without critical reflection on them or totally reject them. However, this case study, by engaging 4 international postgraduates in Australia, proposes a new, and a third, approach to critical reading, named ambivalent reading. After reading opposing texts (texts for and against a given topic) and getting involved in group discussion, this research suggested that it is possible to read texts critically without taking any sides. Ambivalent reading encourages readers to read texts from various perspectives, read several texts on a topic, and discuss their ideas with others. It urges readers not to accept or reject text ideas immediately and before analysing them from various perspectives. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher engaged 4 international postgraduates in a case study where they read two pairs of texts. Each pair contained two texts on a given topic. One text defended the topic while the other criticised it. 
● The participants read texts one by one in each pair. They were given three highlighters to indicate their ideas when reading texts on their own: a green marker to show their agreement with texts; a red marker to show their disagreement, and a yellow marker to show their ambivalence. 
● They were involved in a following interview to explain their interpretations of texts. After that, they were involved in a group discussion to explain and defend their ideas with their peers. Finally, they partook in the second individual interview to explain if and why they changed or maintained ideas. 
● Next, they read the second text in the same pair in the same fashion: first, they read the text and highlighted it. Second, they participated in an individual interview. Third, they took part in a group discussion. Finally, they attended an individual interview. 
● The collected data were transcribed and analysed using qualitative methods of data analysis. 
What the researchers found
 The findings showed that: 
● The participants read texts critically without taking sides (ambivalently). 
● They were able to read texts from numerous and complicated perspectives when reading texts ambivalently. 
● Reading opposing texts helped them to critic texts, while adhering to the fact that texts and subjects are multidisciplinary. 
● The analysis showed that the participants improved their awareness that texts hide some aspects of truths intentionally to convey their ideas and encourage readers to accept them as true. 
● Ambivalent reading let them accept certain aspects of texts, reject some aspects of them, and discuss several non-existing aspects of a subject.  
● Ambivalent reading is reinforced by reading opposing (or several texts) on the same topic that discuss a certain subject from various perspectives. 
● Ambivalent reading can be reinforced by group discussions as different readers discuss texts and subjects from various perspectives. 
Things to consider
 
● This study proposes ambivalent reading as a third type of reading critically and as a continuum to other reading practices, namely reading with and reading against texts. 
● The study does not claim that ambivalent reading should be forced upon students, but that they should be familiarised with ambivalent reading. 
● To this end, a set of concrete questions have been proposed for teachers to introduce ambivalent reading to students. 