
What this study is about and why it’s important Every year, thousands of students decide to travel to a foreign country to study. The popularity of these international experiences is increasing every year due to the different benefits they offer. In relation to language gains, researchers have investigated study abroad experiences that take place in countries where the students’ second language is the official language. This is the case of Spanish learners who study abroad in Spain, or that of French learners who go to France. However, when it comes to learning English as a second language, it is not necessary to travel to an English-speaking country to practice the language because English is used as a lingua franca and universities around the globe offer classes in English. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate whether completing a study abroad experience in a non-Anglophone country can also be beneficial for international students. The objective of this study was to compare students travelling to English-speaking countries and to non-English speaking countries in terms of linguistic outcomes (in reading and vocabulary), and language use. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants in the study were 51 Catalan/Spanish bilinguals, learners of English as an L2. There were 43 female and 8 male participants and their ages ranged from 19 to 27. They had different proficiency levels but there were no statistically significant differences between the groups at the outset of the study. 
● Thirty-one students completed their SA experience in an English-speaking country, whereas 20 students did so in a non-Anglophone country (n = 1 Belgium, n = 2 Denmark, n = 4 France, n = 6 Germany, n = 3 Hungary, n = 3 Poland, n = 1 The Czech Republic). 
● This study includes two measures of reading proficiency (comprehension and fluency), four measures of written productive vocabulary (lexical fluency, density, accuracy, sophistication), one measure of receptive vocabulary, and one regarding language use, which consisted of a qualitative analysis of the students’ answers in a language use questionnaire. 
What the researchers found
 
● After the SA experience, participants in both learning contexts read faster and wrote longer texts. However, this improvement was not significant. Only the participants in Anglophone countries improved their reading comprehension. 
● Both groups improved their receptive vocabulary and lexical accuracy significantly, meaning that they learnt a great number of new words and made significantly fewer mistakes in their writing. 
● The groups showed no improvement in lexical sophistication or lexical density, that is, they continued using common vocabulary and they did not write denser texts after the experience. 
● No statistical differences were found between the two contexts in any of the measures under study. 
● In terms of language use, participants in Anglophone countries used English to a larger extent. They received all content classes in English and this, together with Catalan or Spanish, was the only language they used in their everyday life interactions. In contrast, some learners in the non-Anglophone group took advantage of their destination to practice the language of the country. 
Things to consider
 
● The SA context has the necessary ingredients to boost the learning process, but it will not do so unless learners use the language and practice their skills. 
● Studying in a non-Anglophone country offers the opportunity to practice the local language(s), and, apparently, this does not run counter to English development. 
● Considering that many students cannot study in Anglophone countries for economic reasons or immigration policies, the present study supports those students who undertake an international experience in a country where English is not the official language.  