
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Learning and creating music have been found to have many benefits, from improving wellbeing to enhancing learning in other subjects. Music has been found to be particularly beneficial in the language classroom, with recent investigations demonstrating that musical training improves children’s development of oral and aural skills. Very few studies, however, have examined associations between music expertise and second language acquisition and proficiency, and such research findings have seldom been applied in English as a Second Language (ESL) classrooms. Our study designed and tested a new teaching methodology for the English language classroom using music training. We used music exercises (pitch, rhythm and singing activities) to teach vocabulary and to improve listening and oral skills in children aged 9 to 10 with and without musical training. We compared the results from our listening and oral skills tests with a different group of learners at the same educational level, with whom we used a game-based methodology. Results showed that those learners taught through musical training obtained higher results than the participants taught using the game-based methodology. We also compared the results of students having previous musical expertise with those of non-musicians. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recruited 22 fourth-grade participants with and without previous musical training from schools. A letter was sent to the students and those interested contacted the researchers to participate in the study. All were Spanish-speaking with beginner-level English proficiency. 
● Students with previous instrumental training (10: one boy, nine girls) were deﬁned as participants who already had one year of music training and were undertaking music training (second year) in conservatoires or music schools. Those without any music training were classiﬁed as musically untrained students (12: 6 boys, 6 girls). 
● Participants were assigned to one of two different groups based upon their interest in and selection of a methodology of music or games: the Music as a Medium of Instruction (MMI) group (14: eight musicians, six non-musicians; five boys, nine girls) or the Gamification group (8: two musicians, six non-musicians; two boys, six girls). The selected linguistic content was the same in both groups. 
● The instructor of both groups held Music and English degrees. Being a pre-service teacher, she voluntarily offered language training to both groups free of charge and was unaware of the main aim of the study. 
● Participants first completed an initial listening test to check their baseline ability before the experiment started. They then took part in seven learning sessions. A final listening test, similar to the initial test, was then conducted, enabling the measurement of student improvement. In addition to the listening test, a final oral test was also conducted. 
What the researchers found
 Students of the MMI group had higher final oral production scores than the Gamification group. 
● 
● The MMI group also showed more improvement than the Gamification group in the listening test scores. 
● No differences were found between learners with and without previous musical training in their oral or listening comprehension skills within the MMI group. 
Things to consider
 
● This study provides promising initial evidence that the MMI approach can be as, if not more, beneficial than Gamification-based approaches for young learners in the ESL classroom. 
● This impact was shown after a relatively short learning period; seven sessions of instruction and two of evaluation. 
● As participants selected their own groups, further research is needed using randomised group assignment to fully understand the effects of MMI-based approaches. 
● Further research is also needed with larger, gender-balanced samples and to assess longer-term effects. 
● Teachers need previous musical training to implement this methodology. 