
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigates whether second language (L2) learners consistently produce similar grammatical structures and lexical items across oral and written modalities, and if so whether they produce consistent levels of structure and lexical items between the modalities regardless of their proficiency levels. In addition, this study explores whether working memory capacity is related to the learners’ production. Using comparable tasks across oral and written modalities, this study provided a clearer understanding of the extent to which L2 learners perform similarly or differently depending on modality. Also, this study administered two different working memory tests and used averaged scores, which allowed for reflecting learners’ multidimensional abilities and giving a better understanding of the role of working memory in L2 speaking and writing. 
What the researchers did
 
● I examined oral and written production of 86 Korean L2 learners of English (from beginner level to advanced level) for the analysis. 
● The learners described 19 pictures either in speaking or writing on the first day; then, they completed the same task in the other modality on the second day. The order of the modalities was counterbalanced. 
● I administered two working memory tests right after the first task in counterbalanced order: operation span test and reading span test. 
● I analyzed syntactic complexity and lexical complexity using Lu’s (2010, 2012) automated analyzer. 
What the researchers found
 
● I found that L2 learners produced more complex structures and sophisticated lexical items in the written modality. 
● However, they produced more diverse lexical items in the oral modality; in addition, the advanced learners produced more subordinate clauses in the oral modality. 
● Learners’ working memory capacity seems to be marginally related to oral production. 
Things to consider
 
● L2 learners’ performance differs depending on modality. 
● L2 learners produced grammatical structures and lexical items differently across oral and written modalities (except for subordination), regardless of their proficiency levels. 
● Considering the difference between oral and written modalities, order and frequency of speaking and writing tasks in the classroom could be considered. 
● L2 learners’ working memory capacity is marginally related to their spoken production. 
● Guidance of overcoming working memory capacity may lead to L2 learners’ better performance in oral modality. 