
What this research was about and why it is important 
  This research explored the impact of ambiguous wording of governmental language policies implemented in Andorra and Luxembourg. Andorra and Luxembourg were picked for their linguistic complexity. In both countries small languages (Catalan and Luxembourgish, respectively) and international languages (French and German and French in Luxembourg and French and Spanish in Andorra) coexist. The researchers sought to understand migrants’ experiences of these language policies in Andorra and Luxembourg, in the understanding that ambiguities in relation to language hierarchies as written into policies, can have tangible outcomes in migrants’ participation in aspects of social life. They undertook semi-structured interviews with migrants who had moved to Andorra and Luxembourg at varying different stages in their lives. They concluded that the purposeful ambiguity inscribed into the language policies of the two respective territories can have different outcomes – depending on the social standing of the migrant, how long they have been living in the host country, and so on. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers used two core methods to carry out their research: o They analysed official language policies in Andorra and Luxembourg, to understand how policy documents sometimes left language policy and language status open to interpretation; o They interviewed migrants in Andorra and Luxembourg to understand their experiences of policies which are ambiguous in certain contexts; 
● From the interviews, the researchers pulled together the core themes from what participants had told them. 
What the researchers found
 Andorra 
● Catalan is Andorra’s only official language, although Catalan has long coexisted with French and Spanish. 
● Migrants were aware of Catalan’s official status. Even though French or Spanish do not figure in Andorra’s policy, participants did not appear to give these less value in day-to-day language practices. 
● However, migrants experienced that, sometimes, the use of Catalan is non-negotiable. For example, they noted that in government offices the use of Catalan can be enforced - this reflects Andorran language policy, whereby Catalan is enforced in certain contexts. Luxembourg 
● Contrastingly, Luxembourg policy avoids stating ‘official language’; instead, the country’s historical languages (French, German, Luxembourgish), are given different roles, with Luxembourgish named the ‘national’ language. 
● The lack of a named ‘official language’ in the case of Luxembourg gave flexibility in some migrants’ practices; one noted how they used French in official contexts, switching to Luxembourgish in informal contexts. 
● However, in the case of another migrant who had more recently arrived in Luxembourg, they perceived a gap between the need to speak Luxembourgish versus the limited quantity of inhabitants by whom the language is currently spoken. 
Things to consider
 
● Ambiguities in policy gave rise to multiple interpretations in peoples’ linguistic practices. 
● More work is needed to understand how ambiguities in language policy can impact migrants’ linguistic practices and thereby their access to rights or areas of social life. 
● This is pertinent in small language contexts, given rigid structures which may impose the use of a national language, even where migrants may have low levels of competence, or no knowledge at all of that language. 