
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Reading academic texts in English might be difficult, particularly when English is not the learner’s first language. Suggestions have been put forward in various teaching settings that teachers should be able to adapt the content of the class according to the learners’ English level. Such adaptation would involve reducing the complexity level of the texts to make them a better match to the target learners’ English proficiency level. However, existing teacher training programmes do not offer courses aimed at equipping teachers with effective text adaptation strategies, research on academic reading instruction is still limited, and most studies with teachers on this topic are based on verbal classroom discourse. This study explored the strategies that experienced English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teachers use when intuitively simplifying written English academic texts – that is relying on their own beliefs of comprehensibility – for learners at lower English proficiency levels. The study identified 15 key strategies that EFL teachers used to adapt English academic texts and provided examples and rationale for the use of each strategy. The study also suggested that a text adaptation task can enhance teachers’ reflection skills and called for more language teacher training programmes to introduce such practice into their curricula.  
What the researchers did
 
● 24 experienced EFL teachers with Spanish, Chinese and Russian language backgrounds were asked to simplify two academic texts in an online task and then to explain their rationale for each change in a follow-up interview. 
● The first author detected and analysed each modification that each participant made to adapt the texts, triangulated these analyses with the interview data, and identified 15 simplification strategies used across the sample. 
● Four reflective sessions were conducted with independent reviewers to refine the labels used to name the simplification strategies identified in the analyses. 
● In the final coding scheme, simplification strategies were organised into three overarching units: ‘Form (lexico-syntactic) modifications’, ‘Content modifications’, and ‘Cohesion modifications’. 
● The study also analysed the priority of use of the different simplification strategies by participating English teachers. 
What the researchers found
 
● Despite this reliance on subjective approximations of comprehensibility, there is a shared understanding among experienced EFL teachers from diverse language backgrounds as to what constitutes a more accessible academic text in English. 
● The most common approach to simplify academic texts across the sample concerned making ‘form modifications’ and facilitating learners’ literal understanding of the text. 
● Exchanging words with ones that the teachers felt were more frequently used in English (e.g., replacing ‘purchase’ with ‘buy’) was key to intuitive text simplification, taking up almost 40% of all strategies used to simplify academic texts. 
● None of the participating teachers mentioned having any support, or using readability formulas, predefined word lists and guidelines to adapt texts, while alleviating text difficulty is an indispensable part of their day-to-day job. 
Things to consider
 
● While being trained language teachers, participants in this study reported that they had not learned simplification strategies as EFL pre-service teachers, and the simplification exercise helped them reflect on their reading comprehension instruction practices. 
● Our findings provided strong implications for training novice teachers and increasing their awareness of the text adaption strategies teachers with extensive experience use implicitly. 
● The study developed a guideline for adapting written academic texts in English. 