
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This qualitative research aimed at exploring 15 Iranian English as a foreign language (EFL) teachers' perceived wellbeing in the workspace along with factors that play role in heightening or lowering their wellbeing. Studying teacher wellbeing is of paramount importance since the teaching profession is a highly challenging profession with educators experiencing low levels of wellbeing and high levels of stress and dissatisfaction. In addition, the literature verifies that a high level of wellbeing allows teachers to teach to the best of their capabilities and fosters collegial support and teaching quality, promoting students' academic performance as a result. This study contributes novel insights to the literature as it targets an under-researched group of teachers (i.e., in-service teachers) in an under-explored field (i.e., English language teaching). 
What the researchers did
 
● A total sample of 15 EFL teachers were recruited as the participants of this study. 
● A narrative frame, designed in keeping with the objectives of this experiment, was distributed among the participants to explore their perceived wellbeing as well as individual, contextual, and social elements that shaped their wellbeing. Narrative frames comprise some sentence starters for the respondents to complete, offering support and guidance in terms of the structure as well as the content of what is to be collected. 
● After an approximately one-week interval, the participants took part in semi-structured individual interview sessions, which enabled the researchers to clarify the initial findings and focus on additional underlying factors the narrative frame failed to address. 
● The obtained data were transcribed verbatim and were checked by the participants. 
● The transcriptions were thematically analyzed through a three-step procedure, using NVivo 12, in light of Activity Theory. Activity theory constitutes six key elements that shape all human activities, including tools, subject, object, rules, community, and division of labor. Any activity involves interaction among all these components, which shape and are shaped by other components, making an overall understanding of the activity possible. 
What the researchers found
 
● The findings revealed how six key elements, including learners, colleagues, institutional authorities, institutional rules and regulations, workload, and the status of EFL teachers defined the participants' wellbeing perception in the workplace environment. 
● The findings were mapped onto the key elements of Activity Theory to illustrate how individual and collective features of the workplace environment interact and form teachers' wellbeing. 
● Factors enhancing EFL teachers' wellbeing included students' engagement and motivation, students' good performance on exams, grateful pupils, collegial support, collegial collaboration, and respectful managers and supervisors. 
● Factors mitigating EFL teachers' wellbeing comprised students' lack of motivation and disruptive behavior, students' irresponsibility and complaints, students' disrespectful behavior toward their teachers and classmates, students and parents' unreasonable expectations and interference in teaching, teachers' perceived powerlessness, teachers' perceived inequality and injustice in the workplace environment, collegial conflict, unsupportive administrations, institutional rules and regulations imposed upon teachers, recurrent class observations, high workload, low status of EFL teaching, lack of job security, low payment, and financial problems. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings of this experiment were founded on EFL teachers' stories. Incorporating students, supervisors, and managers' opinions may shed further light on our understanding of teacher wellbeing. 
● Interested researchers are invited to conduct longitudinal studies to examine teachers' wellbeing trajectories over time in order to enrich the literature on in-service EFL teachers and fluctuations in their wellbeing as they encounter tensions and conflicts in the workplace environment. 