
What this research was about and why it is important 
 English-as-a-foreign-language (EFL) teachers in under-resourced contexts encounter numerous hurdles in their daily teaching practices. Such challenges can be attributed to the lack of basic teaching resources (including educational technology) and few opportunities for professional development (training for interactive teaching such as project-based language learning). Therefore, it is worth exploring what informs EFL teachers’ interactive teaching practices as well as their selection of educational technology in their under-resourced contexts. This paper sheds light on EFL teachers’ views of technology-assisted project-based language learning (TAPBLL) before and after the implementation of projects in Lebanon, Libya, and Syria during Fall 2020 and Spring 2021. The study addresses two research questions: (1) What are EFL teachers’ perceptions of TAPBLL before implementing projects in their classrooms? (2) What are EFL teachers’ perceptions of TAPBLL after implementing projects in their classrooms? From a phenomenological study design, the 25 EFL teachers’ views before and after TAPBLL implementation were investigated to explore how they viewed and implemented technology-assisted interactive teaching. Overall, the findings showed that all teachers in all the three contexts viewed TAPBLL as a desirable teaching method. While the teachers encountered several challenges (power outages, inaccessibility to technology, lack of training) when attempting to implement TAPBLL, they exemplified the idea that ‘where there is a will, there is a way!’ in overcoming these impediments. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher recruited 25 EFL teachers who worked at different educational settings: 5 middle schools, 8 high schools, and 12 university language centers in Lebanon, Libya, and Syria. 
● All 25 participants completed a short survey, one voice-recorded semi-structured interview, implemented a project out of 5 projects, and participated in a final voice-recorded semi-structured interview. 
● The researcher analyzed the data by coding and categorizing statements in the transcripts of the interviews. Then all similar categories were placed under specific themes; that is, using thematic analysis for emerging themes. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participants viewed TAPBLL as a desirable interactive teaching approach before and after project implementation. 
● Before project implementation, the teachers discussed potential benefits and challenges with TAPBLL: o The teachers thought that TAPBLL would motivate them and their students to gain more knowledge, help their students become independent learners, and blend language learning to real-life contexts. o The teachers expressed concerns over introducing TAPBLL in their contexts where traditional teaching was the norm, their curriculum requirements, and uncertainty assessing project work. 
● After project implementation, the teachers highlighted the benefits gained and challenges faced with TAPBLL: o The teachers’ initial views of TAPBLL before interview 1 were mirrored in their actual teaching. This is because they reflected on how TAPBLL helped them learn more and use more interactivity in their classrooms, developed independent learners, and they thought that TAPBLL reduced their workload. o The teachers complained that TAPBLL in their under-resourced contexts be challenging due to power outages, struggles introducing TAPBLL to students, and uncertainty assessing TAPBLL. 
Things to consider
 
● The implementation of TAPBLL requires teacher training on the various elements of project work. 
● The EFL teachers’ views of TAPBLL reducing workload and allowing the abandonment of rigor in assessment indicate lack of adequate training. 
● The use of social media apps for project implementation can perhaps be better substituted with an app designed specifically for project-based language learning, where teachers and students can collaborate, plan, design, and present final projects in a virtual context. Such an app can also be used in the developing and developed worlds. 