
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Peer feedback is widely used in language writing classes. Both teachers and students are concerned about the accuracy of peer feedback. Should teachers help evaluate the quality of peer feedback before the receiver uses it? What strategies can they use to indicate the quality of peer feedback? Should they use different strategies for different types of peer feedback? This study compared student use of three different types of peer feedback (direct correction, problem identification, and offer of suggestions) being evaluated by the teacher using two different strategies (direct and indirect) in two essay writing tasks. The study showed that students favored direct corrections in peer feedback and their revision success based on direct corrections was higher than other feedback types. The two strategies used by the teacher equally improved student revision accuracy. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 110 (73 males versus 37 females) Chinese first-year graduate students learning English as a foreign language. They were in three parallel writing classes. 
● The study lasted for one and a half months, during which the participants completed two essays. Each essay was peer reviewed first. Then the teacher reviewed the peer feedback and directly corrected the wrong peer feedback for one class but only indicated the problematic peer feedback with symbols for another class. Students in the third class reviewed and evaluated the quality of peer feedback by themselves without the teacher’s help. After that, all students revised their essay drafts. 
● Peer feedback were divided into three types according to feedback functions: problem identification, direct correction, and offer of suggestions. Student use of the three types of peer feedback in the three classes were compared and analyzed. 
What the researchers found
 Impact of peer feedback type 
● Students adopted more of the direct corrections than identification of problems and offer of suggestions provided by their classmates in the two writings. 
● Students’ revision accuracy based on direct corrections was also higher than the other two types of peer feedback in the two writings. Role of teacher in peer feedback 
● The two classes with the teacher’s evaluation of peer feedback quality revised their mistakes better than the group without the teacher’s help in the first writing, but not in the second writing. They also did better in not acting on the wrong feedback points in both writings than the group without the teacher’s help. 
● The class who received the teacher’s indication of the wrong peer feedback did equally well in revising the problems indicated by all three types of peer feedback as the group who received the teacher’s direct corrections on the erroneous peer feedback. 
● The class without the teacher’s help did not do worse in revising the errors which were not identified by their peers than the two classes with the teacher’s help, indicating that teacher help did not trigger more self-revisions by students. 
Things to consider
 
● Peer feedback type influences students’ use of peer feedback and revision success given that students have higher language proficiency and the feedback is mainly about language problems. More research is needed to uncover whether the research findings hold for other problems such as content and organization. 
● In this study, the two strategies used by the teacher were equally effective in improving student revision accuracy. This seems to imply that EFL writing teachers had better use the indirect strategy to induce students to delve into any problems identified by the peer reviewers. 
● The study also showed that peer feedback alone can help arouse student awareness of language accuracy and enhance their learning autonomy in essay revision. This seems to suggest peer feedback alone and peer feedback with teacher help can be used for different purposes in writing class. 