
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In teacher education programmes, future English teachers get a lot of training in how to teach, but little about the diverse ‘Englishes’ used in global communication. Monolithic beliefs about the unique validity of ‘correct’ native-speaker English are quite entrenched among practising teachers. This study investigated the effect of teacher role models talking about global Englishes on pre-service teachers, and especially the extent to which exposure to the role models moderated the pre-service teachers’ monolithic beliefs about English. The researchers made video clips in which young teachers from Germany and China challenged the monolithic belief that ‘standard’ native-speaker English should be the sole teaching model and learning outcome for all contexts. They played the video clips to pre-service teachers as part of postgraduate course activities. By comparing participants’ scores on a questionnaire about their beliefs before and after viewing the videos, the researchers found that the material was more effective with near peers (e.g., German participants watching German teachers) than with more distant peers (e.g., Spanish participants watching Chinese teachers). Reactions written down immediately following the video clips and in-depth interviews with some participants a few months later confirmed that the approach was effective for many, but not all, pre-service teachers. The results demonstrate the importance of using locally valid materials in preparing teachers to engage with the non-monolithic reality of English for global learners. 
What the researchers did
 
● They made short video clips in which three young teachers from Germany and four from China discussed their non-monolithic beliefs about the global nature of English and how to integrate this into their teaching. 
● They recruited 173 pre-service teachers in MA programmes in Germany, Austria, China, the UK, and Spain. 
● They measured the extent of pre-service teachers’ monolithic beliefs about English using a questionnaire, after which the pre-service teachers watched the video clips and wrote down their immediate reactions. 
● About a month later, the researchers measured pre-service teachers’ beliefs again using the same questionnaire and, after another five months, interviewed some of the participants. 
● They analysed the questionnaire results statistically to see the extent to which the different groups of pre-service teachers had developed less monolithic beliefs about English, and checked the impact of the videos in greater depth with the open-ended question and interview responses. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the pre-service teachers responded positively to the teacher role models and their views about English. 
● Comparison of the scores on the questionnaire before and after watching the video clips showed that most pre-service teachers moderated their monolithic beliefs after viewing the role models. Notably, German and Chinese pre-service teachers viewing German and Chinese role models, respectively, showed the strongest changes in belief. 
● The scores for the more distant peer group suggested that only half of them moderated their monolithic beliefs, compared with majorities of the German and Chinese pre-service teachers. Open-ended responses indicated that the greater impact of near peers derived from the fact that they identified more closely with them. 
● Some participants had negative reactions to the role models and resisted their non-monolithic opinions about English. 
Things to consider
 
● Pre-service teachers reporting having least knowledge about global Englishes from other sources showed greater moderation of monolithic beliefs, suggesting that other sources were not responsible, at least for those participants. 
● The findings indicated that near peer role models made a greater impact because the pre-service teachers could identify with them more closely. This suggests that the approach could be fruitfully employed in other regional teacher education contexts. Resistance from the more distant peers and a minority of near peers suggested that efforts to challenge monolithic beliefs about English might require additional, context-specific techniques. 
● Given that participant numbers were relatively low due to the global pandemic, more research is needed with larger groups. The approach should also be explored in a broader range of global contexts. 