
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In order to cope with the rigors of learning foreign language grammar, students tend to use behaviors, actions, and attitudes to foster their learning process. Some of these actions or strategies that are related to grammar learning have been under-explored. Therefore, it is vital to understand what types of grammar learning strategies students used before, during, and after classroom tasks. This study employed an inventory (i.e., Grammar Learning Strategy Inventory or GLSI), observed classrooms, and interviewed students after doing grammar tasks and explored whether those grammar learning strategies can predict the grammar scores of the participants. The results revealed that the students set a goal and expected an outcome before the task began. They also looked for mediators and tried to pay attention to grammar rules or meanings during the task. Participants further attempted to evaluate themselves and make corrections after the tasks were done. Finally, the results did not confirm whether grammar learning strategies can positively predict the grammar scores of the participants. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 262 English language learners of Iranian universities and private institutes, aged between 14-47. Their proficiency level ranged between elementary and intermediate levels. 
● The learners partook in grammar sessions in which they were asked to discover certain grammar rules, such as rules about count (e.g. apples) and uncount (e.g.milk) nouns. They were asked to think and communicate about the language itself. Their actions and attitudes were recorded by the researchers. 
● The recordings were then shown back to them, so that the researchers could interview them based on their recorded actions and attitudes. 
● The participants also took a grammar test. This allowed researchers to understand whether the strategies the learners used could contribute to and predict their scores. 
● The students further completed a grammar learning strategy survey which was developed from the previous research and the interview results. 
What the researchers found
 
● Before the tasks, learners planned their goals and expected an outcome from the previously-set goal. 
● During the tasks, learners expected help from their mediators such as their teachers or fellow students to achieve their goals. They also paid a lot of attention to the grammar meaning and structure of the tasks. 
● After the tasks, the participants evaluated themselves to see whether they have achieved their desired outcome. If they failed to achieve that, the failure affected their mood negatively. A positive outcome, however, resulted in a promising response. 
● The researchers found that all the grammar strategies in the study and what learners did before and after the task contributed to the grammar scores; even though this contribution was negative in some cases. 
● The researchers also observed that what learners did during the task may not necessarily contribute to the grammar scores. 
● The strategies that were identified before, during, and after the task could also interact with each other.  
Things to consider
 
● This study may improve our understanding of the strategies learners use before, during, and after grammar tasks. 
● Teachers may instruct their students into setting goals and having expectations before the learning process begins. They can further develop an understanding of how to inform students’ attitudes and actions during grammar tasks. 
● The grammar test used in the study may not have revealed the participants’ entire knowledge of grammar. That was perhaps one reason that the contribution of some strategies to grammar scores turned out to be negative. 
● Further studies can use more innovative designs in different contexts to show what learners think and do during different task phases.  