
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In the United States, many people consider English to be a uniquely valuable language, and believe that learning additional languages is admirable but unimportant; furthermore, language learning to advanced levels is considered extremely difficult, especially for adults. This research looked into reasons why some U.S.-based individuals, as adults, nevertheless managed to become proficient in languages other than English. In particular, this article shares the stories of five white middle-class women, from English-speaking U.S. families, who learned at least two languages other than English as young adults. The research found that all five women valued language learning as a form of solidarity, that is, as a way to connect with, better understand, and support people living in poverty, including overseas. What the researcher did 
● The researcher conducted life history interviews with 37 people, based in the U.S., who had learned languages other than English, and then used them for work or volunteering. 
● Interviews were analyzed to see how these learners had acquired these languages, how they used them, and the reasons why they had decided to learn them. 
● This article focuses on five women from different generations but with very similar stories of language learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● These five women began by successfully learning at least one language through academic study and travel during secondary school and university. 
● All five women as young adults participated in religious and/or political contexts that valued solidarity, that is, service to people living in poverty. 
● To better serve in this way, four women decided to learn Spanish, while one learned Haitian Creole. 
● Countries where the women used their new languages for work and/or volunteering included the United States, Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Bolivia, and Haiti. 
● In their stories, the women emphasized their initial frustration over being unable to communicate with the people they wished to serve, but also the ease and pleasure of language learning for reasons of solidarity. 
Things to consider
 
● Although English is an important global language, the 37 interviewees in the larger study valued communicating in languages other than English, and invested efforts in language learning in order to do so. 
● Solidarity, as a religious or political value, provided strong reasons for the five women to become multilingual. 
● The five women shared the belief that learning an additional language for reasons of solidarity was “easy” for them because they had already learned at least one language besides English. 
● This study should provide encouragement to others who decide to embark on additional language learning as adults, especially for reasons of solidarity. 
● It would be valuable to do more research on language learning in multilingual volunteer settings, and in particular to observe challenges to communication across linguistic and cultural divides in order to analyze how these challenges can be addressed. 