
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A number of Italian words are differentiated by the presence of a short vs. long consonant (e.g., pena ‘penalty’ vs. penna ‘pen’, dita ‘fingers’ vs. ditta ‘company’). This is not found in Mandarin Chinese. Hardly any study has investigated whether Chinese speakers can learn to differentiate between Italian short and long consonants. This study aimed to fill this gap. 30 Chinese speakers with different Italian learning experiences and 10 native Italian speakers were given a listening and a reading task. The results showed that, in both listening and reading, the Chinese speakers could distinguish between Italian short and long consonants to a certain extent, but not like native Italian speakers. Also, the Chinese speakers did not improve with their increased Italian learning experience. 
What the researchers did
 
● 30 Chinese speakers and 10 native Italian speakers participated in the study. The Chinese speakers were 10 first-year, 10 second-year, and 10 third-year undergraduate students majoring in Italian at a Chinese university. They were between 18 and 21 years old. 
● The participants had to complete a listening and a reading task. 
● In the listening task, the participants heard 10 Italian word pairs contrasting only in the short/long consonants (see above for examples) and had to identify whether they heard a short or long consonant. Their correct responses were calculated. 
● In the reading task, the participants had to read 5 out of the 10 Italian word pairs mentioned above. The durations of their short and long consonants and the vowels before consonants were measured. 
What the researchers found
 
● In the listening task, the Chinese speakers correctly identified the Italian words 70% to 81% of the time, showing that though the Chinese speakers were not as accurate as the native Italian speakers (who correctly identified the words 97% to 99% of the time) in identifying Italian short and long consonants, they could tell apart these two types of consonants to a certain extent. 
● The Chinese speakers produced Italian long consonants that were generally longer than the short ones. However, the Chinese speakers’ duration differences between Italian short and long consonants were much smaller than those of the native Italian speakers. Also, following the rules of the Italian language, the native Italian speakers produced longer vowels before short consonants and shorter vowels before long consonants (for example, the “e” in pena “penalty” should be longer than the “e” in penna “pen”). On the other hand, the Chinese speakers completely ignored this duration interplay and produced the vowels before short and long consonants with similar durations. These results indicate that, when speaking Italian, the Chinese speakers could produce duration differences between Italian short and long consonants, but not in a native-like manner. 
● The Chinese speakers with different Italian learning experiences did not show differences in either the listening or reading tasks, indicating that their increased learning experience did not help them to listen to or read Italian short/long consonants in a more native-like manner. 
Things to consider
 
● Though no Chinese words are differentiated by consonant duration, the Chinese speakers were able to differentiate between Italian short and long consonants with a certain degree of success in both listening and reading. From this, it seems that Chinese speakers are not completely insensitive to consonant duration differences. 
● The Chinese speakers produced smaller duration differences between Italian short and long consonants as compared to the native Italian speakers. Also, they did not produce a duration interplay between Italian consonants and the vowels preceding consonants. This suggests that the full mastery of Italian short/long consonants represents a challenge for Chinese speakers. 
● The Chinese speakers’ increased Italian learning experience did not help them to better differentiate between Italian short and long consonants. Future research might want to find out whether there are ways (e.g., creating more exposure to native Italian input through study-abroad experiences, using computer-assisted/gesture-aided teaching methods) to help Chinese speakers overcome their standstill in learning Italian short/long consonants. 