
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second language (L2) teacher cognition generally refers to what a teacher thinks, knows, and believes about language teaching and learning. The connection between professional training and teacher cognition has become a topic of interest in the field of L2 pronunciation pedagogy. However, there are limited studies which have connected the dots between training, teacher cognition, and teaching practices. In this study, we used a tutoring project as part of a 16-week graduate course in the teaching and research of L2 pronunciation to explore how student teachers translated training to teaching practices. This study’s findings provide evidence for the importance of language teacher training in pronunciation pedagogy and what should be included in such training opportunities. 
What the researchers did
 
● The L2 pronunciation graduate course used in this study taught student teachers about the phonetic and phonological processes of spoken English, how to analyze and categorize learner errors, and how to teach pronunciation. The capstone project for the course was a four-week tutoring project, in which student teachers were required to provide one-on-one pronunciation instruction to a language learner. 
● The participants were 10 student teachers who did not have previous formal training in pronunciation pedagogy and had not developed lesson plans or materials that explicitly addressed pronunciation. 
● The participants were asked to detail their experiences throughout the four-week tutoring project in the form of written reflections, oral reports, and tutoring observations. 
● The connection between training and teaching was examined through three knowledge bases: the student teachers’ knowledge of the phonetic and phonological processes of spoken English, their ability to analyze and categorize learner errors, and their ability to translate their knowledge into effective teaching practices. 
What the researchers found
 
● The student teachers had various cognitions about their use of techniques when teaching pronunciation, with some preferring to use more listening and drill activities and others preferring more communicative activities. 
● All 10 participants noted the usefulness of having a framework to follow when providing pronunciation instruction, as it gave them something to hold on to during the tutoring sessions. In this case, they were introduced to the Communicative Framework, which outlines pronunciation instruction as five distinct categories: description, listening discrimination, controlled activities, guided activities, and communicative activities. 
● Many participants took a linear approach to teaching, following the Communicative Framework much like a recipe for instruction. 
Things to consider
 
● It is not surprising that the participants chose to incorporate more listening and controlled activities, especially in the earlier weeks, as perception often precedes production, and controlled activities can lead to positive learner gains, are easier to create, and are focused on the target feature. 
● Communicative activities are more difficult to create and implement, particularly in a one-on-one setting, as they require a more holistic approach and a keen ear to notice learner errors. This would suggest that training opportunities provide hands-on activities for developing listening skills in student teachers to catch learner errors. 
● As many of the student teachers chose to use the framework as a recipe, future research could look at any differences in learner gains based on the ordering of activity types. 
● Understanding the learner’s needs and goals had a direct impact on the activities that the student teachers used in their tutoring session, which would suggest that this understanding acts as a bridge between knowledge gained from training and teaching practices. This supports the notion that training programs should teach student teachers to be adaptive to their learners, and not teach pronunciation as a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach. 