
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Communicative tasks aim to provide learners with opportunities to interact with each other. However, sometimes learners instead focus on completing the task as quickly as possible, such as by using efficient but minimal language, which means they reach the "goal" without having substantially used their L2. In this study, we use Conversation Analysis (CA) to show two interactional practices educators use to draw out tasks and therefore allow learners to say more. The first practice involves creating an improvised complication (e.g., a learner ordering pizza might be told the restaurant is out of cheese). Learners presented with a complication like this must then spontaneously use their L2 to ad lib their way around it and complete their task. In the second practice, the educators pretend not to understand something, directing attention towards a problematic aspect of a learner's turn and encouraging them to notice and repair the issue themselves. Rather than letting the learners pass through tasks too smoothly, by creating on-the-spot obstacles to task completion, the educators in our study challenge learners to contribute more to the role-play talk. 
What the researchers did
 
● We video-recorded Japanese learners of English (aged 13-14) who were doing role-plays with trained language educators at an innovative educational facility in Tokyo. 
● We repeatedly viewed and transcribed these data. Our transcripts include details about how the speakers talked (pace, emphasis and the like), as well as their embodied conduct (gestures, gaze direction, etc.). 
● We identified the two focal interactional practices and formed collections of similar cases. 
● We grounded our analysis by carefully describing the interaction from the perspective of the participants themselves. 
What the researchers found
 
● Improvised complications are a common resource educators use to place speed bumps in the way of task completion. They encourage learners to say more and can help them to better follow the task. 
● Feigned displays of misunderstanding likewise serve as obstacles to task progression by drawing learners’ attention to an issue in their turn and encouraging them to notice and resolve it themselves. 
● In both practices, the educators steer the talk away from more expedient paths to task completion, and instead lead the learners onto bumpier but interactionally richer avenues. 
Things to consider
 
● This study provides empirical analysis of unscripted L2 role-play task interaction. 
● Although task difficulty is often discussed as a fixed or static property of tasks themselves, the interactional practices we document are used to recalibrate task difficulty on-the-fly, on a learner-by-learner basis. 
● Presenting learners with these kinds of unpredictable situations allows the educators to make the role-plays more akin to real-service encounters. However, the absurd/silly way the obstacles are presented is often treated by the participants as fun. Creating obstacles to progressivity is thus one way that the educators in our study strike a careful balance between education and entertainment. 