
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Second-language learners benefit in learning a foreign language from having high metalinguistic awareness, that is when they can reflect on language and can manipulate sentences or words irrespective of their meaning. We investigated two aspects of metalinguistic awareness in early foreign language acquisition, (1) knowledge of how languages work and how they are similar or different (metalinguistic analysis) and (2) skills to change or rearrange elements of language and play with them (metalinguistic control). In this study, we investigate how these two aspects of metalinguistic awareness help primary school students at the initial stages of foreign language learning when proficiency is still limited. The results show that metalinguistic awareness is an important factor in foreign language learning even at a primary-school level. Of note, different aspects of metalinguistic awareness affect vocabulary and grammar learning, respectively. 
What the researchers did
 
● We collected data from 200 students from six public primary schools in south-west Germany with different linguistic and social backgrounds. Participants had a mean age of 9.26 years at the beginning of data collection. 
● 88 learners had German as their only first language, and 112 bilingual learners had acquired a language other than or in addition to German before their first contact with English. 
● The bilingual group was very diverse and comprised a range of more than 20 different first languages, the largest being Albanian, Italian, Kurdish, and Turkish. 
● In all schools, English was taught as a foreign language from grade 1 onwards for two 45-minute lessons a week. 
● Learners were tested on English vocabulary and grammar, as well as on different aspects of metalinguistic awareness: metalinguistic analysis was collected via an interview in which students had to compare and reflect about languages in terms of e.g. sentence structure or grammar rules. Metalinguistic control was tested with different tasks in which children had to re-arrange English words or substitute individual sounds 
● In addition, we assessed background factors on learning biography, cognitive skills (working memory and non-verbal IQ), and socioeconomic background. 
● Students were tested at the end of grade 3 and grade 4 in their schools during regular teaching hours by trained research assistants. 
What the researchers found
 
● Results show that metalinguistic awareness breaks down into an analysis and a control component, which are related but different aspects of metalinguistic awareness. 
● Both aspects of metalinguistic awareness positively influence different parts of foreign language learning. 
● Whereas the ability to compare linguistic structures (metalinguistic analysis) is first and foremost important for English vocabulary learning, the detection & manipulation of language elements (metalinguistic control) predominantly helps learning English grammar. 
Things to consider
 
● Since different types of metalinguistic awareness are important factors which positively influence the learning process, teachers should incorporate activities that foster both in the foreign classroom. 
● Overall, comparing and reflecting on language(s) on a metalinguistic level can be a fruitful approach even at the beginning stages of foreign language learning. 