
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research on second language acquisition (SLA) is increasingly interested in how the use of a second language (L2) in social interaction affects L2 development, especially when it comes to the development of interactional skills (what is called L2 interactional competence). An outstanding question regarding this development is the role played by precise linguistic resources that L2 speakers use for coordinating social interaction (turn-taking, opening or closing conversations, handling conversational troubles, etc.). The present case-study used micro-level interactional analysis combined with quantification to investigate the developmental trajectory of the French construction comment on dit ‘how do you say’ (COD) in one L2 French speaker’s word-searches (that is, when the speaker had difficulties finding a word in her L2 French). Results showed that the speaker changed her use of COD over time: At first, she mostly used the construction in its ‘literal’ sense to ask other speakers for help to find the word. With time, she increasingly used the construction to show that she needed time to think on her own; in this use, the construction had lost its ‘literal’ meaning and was used as a discourse-marker like element indexing cognitive search. Each type of use was associated with particular body language, such as gaze turned toward or away from other participants. In all, the construction progressively routinized as a linguistic resource for interaction-organizational purposes, such as to hold the floor when searching for a word. These findings show the close connection between the acquisition of linguistic patterns and interactional competence, as well as the role of bodily resources in L2 development and use. 
What the researchers did
 
● They examined the use of COD in word-searches over 15 months, based on regular video-recordings of a target participant’s (Malia) interactions with other university students in an L2 French conversation activity (16.2 hours of data; 22 recordings). 
● The target participant, Malia (30 years old, L1 Farsi), was an upper-elementary (A2) speaker of French at the start of the study (Semester 1) and reached upper-intermediate (B2) level at the end (Semester 3). 
● The researchers analyzed all word-searches comprising COD that were found in the data (N=204). They deployed multimodal conversation analysis supplemented by selective quantification to compare the types of uses of COD over time. 
What the researchers found
 Over the course of 15 months, Malia’s use of COD diversified in both form and function: 
● The proportion of the ‘literal’ uses of COD as a request for help decreased significantly (64% in Semester 1 vs. 11% in Semester 3), and the expression progressively routinized as a resource mainly used for displaying cognitive search and floor-holding (27% in Semester 1 vs. 76% in Semester 3), working in a similar way as a discourse marker. 
● The ‘literal’ use of COD as a request, though overall decreasing in relative frequency, diversified over time. Initially, it was only used to request a word. Later, it was also found in requests for confirmation of words suggested by Malia herself. 
● The ‘marker-like’ uses also diversified over time: COD used for indicating the speaker’s cognitive search and holding the floor was supplemented by its use for initiating self-correction (like ‘I mean’ in English). 
● The routinization of COD included reduction in linguistic and prosodic form and meaning as well as a change in bodily conduct, in particular as regards gaze and gesture. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings evidenced the development of an L2 grammar-for-interaction, involving a diversification of interactional functions and a routinization of a linguistic pattern for interaction-organizational purposes. This development, the authors argue, is an integral part of the development of L2 interactional skills. 
● The study exemplified how language and body are intertwined in L2 development: Bodily conduct is an important part of the interactional effectiveness of linguistic constructions. When the use of linguistic resources changes, the use of bodily resources also changes. 
● The findings stressed the need for promoting interactional practice in L2 learning/teaching contexts. 
● The study informed our understanding of the construct ‘fluency’, by exemplifying the kind of phrases and expressions L2 speakers may use to manage turn-taking/turn-holding. 