
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Synchronous online language lessons (SOLLs), where teachers and students use digital tools, specifically video-conferencing software (VCS), to engage in teaching and learning in real time but from different physical locations through screened internet enabled devices, such as laptops, tablets, and mobile phones, have seen a rapid rise in use in recent years. However, SOLLs are distinctly different from in-person lessons and language teachers require specific competences to successfully create opportunities for learning during SOLLs. This study, building on the authors’ previous work, explored one important aspect of online language teaching, teachers’ facilitation of classroom interaction. Our goal was to explore the relationship between teachers’ professional practices and the competences needed to use digital tools during SOLLs to facilitate classroom interaction. Our data exemplify the professional practices and related competences needed to assist and mediate interaction in SOLLs. We provided a refined framework for understanding classroom interaction competence for synchronous online language lessons, or e-CIC. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study adopted a multiple case study approach with each participant constituting a single case. 
● The study participants were 5 university level English language teachers teaching in English language centres at English medium universities in Hong Kong. They had been teaching SOLLs for between 9 and 14 months. 
● Data collection consisted of three stages: Stage 1 - Qualitative online survey; Stage 2 - Collection of video recording of SOLLs and teachers’ written reflections; Stage 3 - Semi-structured interviews with stimulated recall methodology. 
● Data analysis included a combination of discourse and thematic analysis approaches. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers were engaged in professional practices and deployed teaching strategies specific to the SOLL context. Many of these practices and strategies were developed in response to the constraints teachers identified while working in SOLLs. We identified two professional practices common to SOLLs: o Creating a context for interaction – communicating interactional expectations, using breakout rooms, o accounting for variable online learning environments facilitating an interactional sequence – eliciting, managing and maintaining interaction sequences by utilising multiple communication channels (e.g. oral, written, visual, gestural) and digital tools (e.g. Google Docs) 
● We found that the different competences – technological competence; online environmental management competence; online interactional competence - that when combined, constitute classroom interaction competence teachers need for synchronous online language lessons (e-CIC) - have a hierarchical relationship and are interrelated. This led to a refined e-CIC framework. 
Things to consider
 While the study was limited to five teachers in one city, Hong Kong, and education level, university, who were required to teach online due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has contributed to our understanding of SOLLs in the following ways: 
● First, the professional practices and associated strategies can provide observable and practical ways for teachers to facilitate classroom interaction during SOLLs. 
● Second, the refined e-CIC framework, which aligns the practices with associated competences, provides a way for teacher educators and professional development providers to observe and actualize the competence needed to facilitate interaction during SOLLs. This study focused specifically on teachers. However, the students’ experience of SOLLs is also important. We suggest that future research should investigate SOLLs from the learners’ point of view - so that we can better understand how learners are receiving and participating in these lessons. 