
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Whilst the fields of language teaching materials on the one hand and language teacher education on the other have received considerable attention since the 1990s, there remains an important disconnect between both fields from a research perspective. The lack of research on the intersection of both fields is particularly noteworthy considering the sociocultural notion that tools, in this case language teaching materials, have a pivotal role in teacher learning. To bridge this gap, this study explored how preservice teachers of English in Chile learn to design their own language teaching materials during their teacher education course. Using qualitative methods to analyse data from preservice teachers, teacher educators, and schoolteachers, the study shows how the preservice teachers’ designing of materials was mediated by the way in which they assumed learner limitations as a rationale underpinning their decision making. The study also shows how the emergence of this line of thinking occurs amidst a tension between the pedagogies instilled by the teacher educators at the university and the pedagogies practiced by schoolteachers in the schools where the preservice teachers did their practicum. 
What the researchers did
 
● Two stimulated recall interviews were conducted with eight preservice teachers doing their school-placements, using materials that each preservice teacher had designed to retrieve the rationales underpinning their design. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with these preservice teachers, with teacher educators and with schoolteachers. One focus group was conducted with six other preservice teachers. 
● The data generated by the participants was analysed using thematic analysis. 
● Activity theory was used to analyse the data and understand how the sociocultural environment influenced the emergence of rationales and tensions affecting the design of materials. 
What the researchers found
 
● The study shows how ‘Assuming Learner Limitations’ was a powerful mediator of the preservice teachers’ designing of materials. It also shows how this line of reasoning is based on disparaging beliefs about the learners’ capacities and dispositions to learn English. 
● The study further shows that the emergence of ‘Assuming Learner Limitations’ occurs within a tension between the type of pedagogy promoted by the university setting and type of pedagogy practice in the different schools where the preservice teachers did their practicum. It also shows how the schoolteachers mentoring the preservice teachers had a pivotal role in the promotion of this rationale. 
Things to consider
 The findings of this study have a number of implications for teacher education: 
● They call for teacher educators to prevent the emergence of ‘Assuming Learner Limitations’ as a mediator not only in materials design, but also in language education in general. They also call for teacher educators to help student-teachers make explicit the rationales underpinning their design of materials, and examine them to gauge how these promote or hinder language learning. 
● The findings also confirm the enduring presence of tensions between teacher education institutions and the places where teachers are expected to teach. 
● The findings also highlight the need to research the intersection of teaching materials and teacher education further, and that research in this area should not only shed light on what is known about materials and the rationales underpinning them, but also on how language teachers learn to teach. 