
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Effective learning strategies have been proven to be helpful for lowering learners’ foreign language anxiety and improving their language proficiency. However, while many studies have been devoted to learners’ learning strategies, they typically have ignored the role of teachers in reducing foreign language anxiety. In addition, the effectiveness of the anxiety-reducing strategies proposed by these studies has rarely been verified in a natural classroom environment. This study was conducted to explore the systematic effects of teaching strategies on foreign language anxiety and investigated the changes in 306 learners’ foreign language anxiety levels influenced by the anxiety-reducing teaching strategies. Results showed that the learners’ communication anxiety, test anxiety and fear of negative evaluation except for anxiety about English class in the experimental group were alleviated greatly after the teaching experiment. More specifically, findings indicated that test anxiety was the variable most affected by the teaching strategies and that the teaching strategies used in this study were found effective and feasible. What the researcher did 
● Four English teachers and 306 learners were recruited to participate in the teaching experiment. 
● The teachers took part in six training sessions on using anxiety alleviating teaching strategies. The systematical teaching strategies for reducing foreign language anxiety were constructed based on three dimensions: individual factor, others factor, and situational factor. Each teacher then taught two classes, one with the strategies (experimental group) and one without (control group). 
● The learners completed an adapted English Learning Anxiety Scale before and after the classes to investigate their foreign language anxiety levels. 
● The Teaching Strategies Intervention Scale was used to conduct classroom observations by the two professional evaluators at two stages: before and during the teaching experiment. 
● The study provided a practical framework for teachers to systematically alleviate learners’ foreign language anxiety. What the researcher found 
● The teachers in the experimental group used more effective strategies to reduce the learners’ foreign language anxiety in their teaching practices; the teaching strategies employed in this study were effective. 
● The learners’ communication anxiety, test anxiety and fear of negative evaluation were alleviated dramatically after the teaching strategies intervention in the experimental group. 
● Situational factor was the most affected variable in the three dimensions of the teachers’ use of the strategies after the teaching experiment. In addition to the influence of learning situation, foreign language anxiety may also be affected by specific social and cultural environments. 
● Test anxiety was the variable most affected by the anxiety-reducing teaching strategies. 
● Teachers played a pivotal role in helping the learners cope with foreign language anxiety. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers should develop appropriate and effective strategies to help learners establish realistic and proper beliefs about English learning and set a feasible English learning goal, etc. 
● A more relaxed, friendly and supportive classroom environment should be created to stimulate learners’ interest in language learning. 
● It is indispensable for learners to develop cultural awareness, and teachers should help them understand the differences between their native culture and target culture so as to alleviate their anxiety caused by communication failure related to cultural difference. 
● Undoubtedly, there were other sources of foreign language anxiety and additional strategies, which were not included in the study, for coping with foreign language anxiety of different participants from diverse learning environments and cultural backgrounds. Consequently, further related exploration and validation are needed in future research. 