What this study was about and why it is important It is a disappointing for every English teacher when a carefully prepared lesson meets dead silence on the part of students. How can we break the ice and make students communicate in the English classroom? This study investigated how students’ achievement goals and emotions co-influenced their willingness to communicate (WTC) in English. We found that the achievement goals students adopted influenced the level of their emotions (enjoyment and anxiety) and WTC in English. Students could be classified based on the achievement goals they had. We found that the level of enjoyment, anxiety, and WTC in English differed a lot among these groups. 
What the researchers did
 
● 408 Chinese English learners from two junior high schools participated in this study. Their average age was 14. They were all native speakers of Chinese and were learning English as a foreign language.  
● Learners completed a questionnaire, which measured their levels of achievement goals, two emotions relating to achievement (enjoyment and anxiety), and WTC in English. 
● Achievement was categorised as high or low.  
● Achievement goals were defined as; mastery goals (focusing on the mastery of knowledge in its own right), performance-approach (focusing on demonstrating their competence by outperforming others), and performance-avoidance goals (focusing on avoiding appearing incompetent before others). 
What the researchers found
 
● Students’ achievement goals influenced their emotions (both enjoyment and anxiety). Higher levels in mastery goals and performance-approach goals = higher enjoyment and lower anxiety. Performance-avoidance goals were associated with lower enjoyment and higher anxiety. Higher enjoyment was associated with greater WTC. 
● The influence of mastery goals and performance-approach goals on WTC was moderated by enjoyment. If learners enjoyed learning then it was possible for mastery or performance goals to increase WTC.  
● Students fell into one of four groups; mastery-oriented (high level in mastery goals), high-all (high level in all goals), average-all (average level in all goals), and low-all (low level in all goals). 
● The mastery-oriented group exhibited the highest enjoyment and WTC and lowest anxiety, while the low-all group showed the lowest levels of WTC and enjoyment. Interestingly, this study found that anxiety did not necessarily lead to a lower WTC. 

Things to consider
 
● Teachers should encourage students to pursue mastery of knowledge and good performance in class as these increase WTC and positive emotions. 
● The influence of mastery goals and performance-approach goals on WTC was found to be indirect and must be “bridged” by the enjoyment. Hence, boosting enjoyment in English classrooms is recommended. 
● Having different combinations of goals had a varying effect on emotions and WTC. High mastery goals lead to the best outcomes while low levels of all the goals was associated with the least desirable outcomes. Teachers could encourage mastery goals and prevent “demotivation” and low levels of all goals.  