
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A chronotope can help describe how different scales of time (chrono) and space (tope) are linked to and enable the development of specific forms of personhood and character development. In this study, we explore the notion that people create a multiplicity of chronotopes to explain their identities and transnational experiences. Through a close analysis of interviews and observations with two youth of Mexican descent when they described their online activities, we showed that the youth situated their digital activities in three distinct but dialogical chronotopes (family, hometown, and transborder) to create transnational connections and make sense of who they are. The study’s findings demonstrate how youths’ digital practices and embedded artifacts serve to construct multiple contexts and vantage points for developing their transnational identities and knowledge. 
What the researchers did
 
● This case study is drawn from a larger research project that included a media use survey, focus groups, and home observations with high-school students. 
● We focus on two transnational women of Mexican descent. 
● We visited the youth at their homes on multiple occasions, and video-recorded and interviewed them about their online activities. 
● Through thematic coding, we identified data that involved the youths’ connection with or description of people, places, and activities across national borders resulting in emerging ideas about chronotopic frames. We also analyzed the linguistic features that made events chronotopic. 
● Through these processes, we identified three salient chronotopic frames that involve movement and imagination across territorial boundaries. 
What the researchers found
 
● Participants draw from three distinct chronotopic frames (family chronotope, hometown chronotope, and transborder chronotope) to build identities, maintain cultural ties and relationships, and continue their language learning. 
● They employ digital literacy practices to construct their personal history of “living” in transnational spaces where they are not physically present, but which can nevertheless be transforming for their personal and linguistic growth. 
● The family, hometown, and transborder chronotopes create spatiotemporal contexts into which participants situate themselves and others and form the support for the construction of multidimensional identities. 
● These chronotopes are deterritorialized which aid the movement and negotiation of participation across national borders and over time. 
● The participants’ digital literacy practices facilitate the transnational connections they form with relatives who are in a different locale. 
Things to consider
 
● Transnational youth may leverage various digital artifacts to create narratives of their transnational belonging. These linguistic and visual artifacts are potentially rich resources for learning in the classroom. 
● Receptive transnational practices such as viewing of text, image, video, and music created in a different part of the world, can serve as a narrative resource that people use to construct spatiotemporal frameworks to position themselves and others. 
● Digital artifacts introduce transnational experiences at multiple scales and can be used as resources of narrative production and knowledge making. 
● In opening up space for transnationalism in writing and multimodal compositions, the process of storytelling could unfold through discussing the transnational artifacts that students share to promote understanding and engage with their varied ways of knowing and being as transnational individuals. Material, data, open access article: The appendix that presents the main codes under each chronotopic frame of this analysis is accessible at https://tinyurl.com/3a7hnmac | open access article 