
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The flipped classroom approach is a technology-based and learner-centred teaching method which involves reversed instructions. What traditionally takes place in class is done outside the classroom while the in-class time is used for student-centred active learning. The flipped method is popular in first language (L1) classrooms for its advantages on learner autonomy, participation, and classroom interactions, but its role in the English as a second / foreign language (EFL) context still merits further exploration. Many EFL teachers are concerned about the usefulness of this method or whether they could use this method more strategically to help EFL learners to acquire communicative competence. This study investigated the effects of the flipped classroom approach on five aspects of EFL learners’ written communicative competence: lexis (words and phrases), syntax, cohesion, pragmatics, and discourse. The results showed that this approach had differential effects on different sub-competencies. In the present research context, this method was found particularly useful on the learners’ development of lexical, cohesive, and pragmatic competencies. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 125 Chinese undergraduates from a local Chengdu university. They were non-English major freshmen, aged between 18-21, with intermediate to high-intermediate levels of English language proficiency. 
● The participants were randomly enrolled into two classes of a regular college English course with the same curriculum materials. One class received the flipped learning method and the other a more traditional lecture method. 
● The participants took two tests (before and after the experiment) to monitor their development on five sub-competencies, i.e., lexis (appropriate use of words and phrases), syntax (correct use of grammar), cohesion (logical organization of thoughts and words), pragmatics (proper use of pragmatic strategies), and discourse (knowledge of register, style, and social background). 
● The two classes’ test results were compared regarding the two different teaching approaches. 
What the researchers found
 
● The flipped classroom approach was more useful than the traditional lecture approach on these EFL learners’ overall development of communicative competence. 
● The flipped classroom approach was more useful than the traditional lecture approach on these EFL learners’ development of lexical, cohesive, and pragmatic competencies. 
● The flipped classroom approach and the traditional lecture approach were equally beneficial on these EFL learners’ development of syntactical and discoursal competencies. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, the flipped classroom approach was proved to be useful to assist the EFL learners’ acquisition of communicative competence. 
● This study showed that this teaching approach might be particularly useful to help the learners to develop their lexical, cohesive, and pragmatic competencies. This indicated a possibility to strategically use this method to better benefit EFL learners’ development. 
● The major limitation of this study is the length of the experiment. Further research could adopt a longer-term experiment to better investigate the relationship between the flipped classroom approach and the development of various aspects of EFL leaners’ communicative competence. 