
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research on second language (L2) learning has shown that interaction facilitates L2 acquisition because it allows learners to be exposed to and share their knowledge about the L2, produce it, and receive feedback on their attempts. While research on interaction has considered a variety of factors (e.g., age, gender, task type), to date there has been little research about the impact of different instructional approaches on interaction. This study considers a deductive approach (DED) and a guided inductive one, PACE (Presentation, Attention, Co-construction, Extension). In DED, L2 learners were introduced to the target form (the Spanish pronoun se) by means of explicit explanations. In PACE, L2 learners were introduced to the target form by means of narratives and guided by examples as to how to use it. To date research on these two approaches has reported mixed findings making it difficult to determine which one may be more beneficial. This study explores the opportunities provided by way of interaction when L2 learners engage in different small-group interactional tasks that follow these contrasting approaches to developing explicit rules. 
What the researchers did
 
● There were four groups of 2-4 L2 learners in separate classrooms: two groups in DED and two in PACE. 
● Each group completed four tasks to practice the target form se. Task 1 consisted of comparing restaurants on a list and deciding which one they would visit. In Task 2 students described one restaurant from a list and the partners guessed which restaurant it was. In Task 3 students described a recipe and the partners had to guess the dish. In Task 4 the students had to decide whether the story their partners were telling was true or false. 
● The students received extra input in the form of vocabulary lists before starting with Task 1 and 3. 
● All interactions among students were recorded and transcribed. We then identified the following: (a) the use of the target form, (b) negotiation of meaning (NoM) strategies, which are discourse moves that serve to respond to a communication breakdown during interaction, and (c) language-related episodes (LREs), which refer to instances when learners explicitly address specific language difficulties. 
● We analysed whether (a) the target form was correctly used, (b) the NoM strategies used in the tasks by each group, and (c) the types of LREs used in the tasks by each group, and whether LREs were resolved or not. 
What the researchers found
 
● L2 learners in PACE produced more accurate uses of se than those in DED. 
● L2 learners in DED generated more NoM and LREs than PACE learners, and they also incidentally received more assistance from the teacher/researcher while they circulated among the class than PACE learners. 
● They all produced more NoM and LREs in task 1 and 3, which involved previous input before doing the task. 
● When they raised concerns about language, they were able to resolve the majority of them with their partners. 
Things to consider
 
● DED may offer L2 learners with more opportunities to discuss language-related issues. 
● Group-interaction provides L2 learners opportunities to discuss L2 language issues and receive feedback. 
● Task features (provision of input beforehand) play a role on interaction and learners’ reflection on language. 
● When interacting in L2, the assistance of a teacher appears to impact the opportunities L2 learners have to reflect on language to a greater extent than the approach they follow. 