
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Rather than presenting and explaining the rules of grammar to language learners, teachers can guide learners to discover these rules on their own, that is, to engage learners in a process of co-construction. Previous research has shown conflicting outcomes in the resulting grammatical knowledge, but few studies have examined the interaction that occurs during co-construction. This study investigated a Spanish language classroom where small groups of learners had analyzed narrative texts, containing the target grammar of the pronoun se, to come up with hypothesized rules. The focus of the research was the interaction that took place in the subsequent teacher-led whole-class discussion when learners reported back. The objective was for the teacher to guide the learners towards a consensus. The study showed that when a learner gave an answer to a teacher question, the teacher rarely responded with explicit feedback as to whether the answer was right or wrong. Lack of clear teacher feedback presented challenges for the learners in working towards the target grammatical rule. 
What the researchers did
 
● Video data was collected from a third-year U.S. high school Spanish language class consisting of 20 learners (aged between 15-18). 
● The researchers focused on the whole class teacher-led discussions in three lessons on the Spanish pronoun se where the goal was for the teacher to guide the learners to co-construct the grammatical rule for the target structure. 
● The researchers transcribed the video and analyzed the teacher and learner interactions in these whole class discussions on a line-by-line basis, paying attention to how each turn was connected to what came before and after. 
What the researchers found
 
● Instead of providing clear feedback as to whether an answer was right or wrong, the teacher acknowledged learner answers (okay), repeated them, and often asked other learners to give feedback, for example What do you think and do you agree? In this way, she encouraged learner participation in co-constructing the grammar rule, allowing them to express their opinions, reformulate the answer, or provide alternatives. 
● However, this created problems when there were multiple learner answers to a teacher question or if a learner answer was unclear. 
● The teacher often asked the same question repeatedly without given further guidance or content feedback. This led to confusion with learners focusing on the wrong grammatical feature. It also led to learners feeling that the talk was going around in circles. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers need to think about being responsive to the learner answer just given as well as bearing in mind how their response might help learners reach the overall objective of articulating the grammar rule. 
● Teachers and learners might be unfamiliar with co-construction as a type of instructional approach and thus need training on how to participate in this kind of practice for it to be effective. 