
What this research was about and why it is important 
  People communicate with one another increasingly with the aid of mobile digital technology (i.e., smart phones) and do so while moving through the world. One such recurring event type is when a group of friends walk together around an urban environment looking for places of interest (e.g., a museum, a restaurant, a place to shop). There are typically no fixed rules for the task of a group in selecting a place to visit and subsequently locating and navigating their way to the destination; order emerges as the group does the task. Our research examines similar contexts that involve small groups of language learners finding and reporting on particular places in a city, without explicit instructions, by talking together and consulting mobile digital technology. Our research attempts to better understand how forms of verbal and embodied communication are structured in connection with what is seen and heard among the participants as they move. This entails the examination of talk, gesture, gaze, the placement of speakers’ bodies, and their use of mobile phone technology. The theoretical grounding for this approach (integrational linguistics) attempts to analyze language use as one part of the repertoire for communication that humans have to make meaning with one another. Our findings show that participants developed a structure for doing their assigned task by coordinating and aligning their talk, bodies, and technology with each other and the physical environment. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers video recorded students playing a mobile augmented reality game using three cameras. 
● The researchers used Multimodal Conversation Analysis as their analytic method. 
● The researchers analyzed how language structures were used, repeated, and modified. 
● The researchers analyzed how the participants coordinated their body movements, such as pointing and gaze, with the language that they used. 
What the researchers found
 
● The researchers found that the participants closely aligned their bodies with one another, the mobile phones, and the physical environment. 
● This close coordination made it possible for the game players to co-construct language structures that were important for accomplishing the game task as a group. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings tell us that when doing tasks in small groups, the participants use more than language in the abstract. Their language is shaped by their bodies and their interaction with the physical environment. 
● One implication for this research is reconsidering the way that language use and language learning are assessed. 
● Another implication is that people who are planning task-based interaction that is done online (for example, via skype or zoom) should expect different language use and language structuring because of the absence of the interbodied experience and lack of a shared immediate physical environment.  
● The findings raise this significant question: To what degree is language the property of the individual or the group?  