
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This article examined the practices of the Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) when inspecting language use in schools and how these practices are influenced by raciolinguistic ideologies. These ideologies are a set of beliefs about language with are influenced by the race of the speaker. This is a widespread ideology in the US where “white English” is thought of as the norm and variations such as African American Vernacular English are often stigmatised for not being ‘standard’ English. This article sought to determine whether similar ideologies influence Ofsted and how language use in schools is evaluated in the UK. The study found that raciolinguistic biases were systemic in Ofsted and that non-standard variants of English were deemed “impoverished, deficient, and unsuitable for school” (p.1). This is important, as raciolinguistic ideologies perpetuate racial and social inequalities which have a detrimental effect in schools and in wider society. 
What the researchers did
 The researchers analysed historical records and contemporary reports to investigate Ofsted’s judgements of teachers’ and students’ English use. They focused on how the inspectorate as an institution hears, reports on, and polices spoken English whilst in schools. This is important research, because Ofsted represents the state and its view of education and society. The researchers note that class is the most influential factor for standard language ideology in the UK, but that race is also an important factor too. To analyse the corpora of reports, the researchers used a raciolinguistic genealogy. This has three guiding principles. 1) A genealogical stance – the way in which language results in conditions in which particular ways of talking (and as a result, groups of people) are deemed un / acceptable. 2) A materialistic framing – providing a context for language standardisations within wider social, political and economic powers, in particular highlighting the role of global capitalism. 3) A raciolinguistic perspective – focus on language ideologies placing racialised populations as inferior to standardised white populations. 
What the researchers found
 This research found that historically language ideology had a great influence on the inspectorate’s judgements of English. In the past, emphasis was placed on teachers and students changing their English away from regional variations and difference to standardised English. Given the increases in different races in the classroom post-war, the concept of standardised English and the focus on its importance, can be taken to reflect linguistic bias in terms of both race and class. Post-2010, Ofsted guidelines referred less to “standardised English”, but used other terms as proxies for class and race, such as “inner-city” and students eligible for “free school meals”. English was found to be regularly corrected and that students were aware that their usage of English was “incorrect”. In the most recent guidelines, research used to inform inspectors judgements of language use has been found to be problematic in terms of the framing of home-languages as being inferior or incorrect. Inspectors were found to widely praise teachers for re-modelling language, or correcting language, when local dialects or colloquialisms were used. In other words, the inspectorate praises teachers for reinforcing a standard language ideology found to be underpinned by views on race and class. Teachers were also critiqued for not using standard English in the classroom. With regard to students, use of standardised English was thought to represent intelligence and ability, whereas dialects and variants were thought to suggest the opposite. This perpetuates racial and class inequality by assuming positive traits on those using standardised (white, middle class) English. There were many examples of this across the Ofsted reports analysed. 
Things to consider
 
● The study concludes that Ofsted should focus less on changing language in school, and more on changing how it listens, if it is serious about challenging biases related to race and class. As educators, we could also take this into account in our own classrooms, and assessments of students’ language use. 
● The researchers suggest that the focus on ‘standard’ language may result in a lack of attention on other purposes of classroom talk – social connection, the sharing of ideas, creativity. 
● This could be considered in your classroom / school – could more focus be put on the use of language for communication rather than on its being “correct”. 