
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Previous research on second language (L2) multimedia projects has primarily focused on how students communicate through verbal or textual language. Some studies have additionally indicated how L2 students may use image, video, color, and/or font to capture the attention of their audience and express their identities in multimedia projects like PowerPoints and videos. Much less is known about how students use gestures and facial expressions when communicating in the L2. This study aimed to understand how 126 university students of L2 French used their bodies to communicate across 347 French video reflections. An analysis of the video reflections indicated that students used their bodies in asynchronous videos to reflect on their language learning, organize their spoken language, and create community with their peers.  
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 126 students of French as a second language at a large university in the Southwestern United States. All students had taken the equivalent of at least four semesters of college French. 
● Learners engaged in 347 French video reflections through the video discussion board, Flip.com, to discuss their opinions on course content and projects. 
● Authors analyzed the video reflections first by creating a table with columns for: screenshot of the video, the timestamp, a description of the video, a transcription of what was said, and the gestures and facial expressions that participants used. 
● Authors utilized four phases of data analysis to understand themes of the functions of gestures and facial expressions that the participants used in their videos. 
What the researchers found
 
● Using gestures helped students to understand their own language production. Students often used gestures and facial expressions when searching for the words and grammatical structures that they wanted to use in their videos. 
● Students’ gestures and facial expressions facilitated students’ organization of their L2 French speech in terms of its meaning, order, and location. For example, gestures like pointing helped students organize the tense and aspect of the verbs that they used. 
● Students used gestures and facial expressions to communicate with their peer audience, convey humor, or quote other individuals. Humor was particularly prevalent during the switch to online pandemic Zoom learning in the Spring of 2020. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings signal the need for decentering perspectives that focus on L2 learning as uniquely related to the production of oral or written language. For example, students often communicated meaning uniquely through gestures, or used gestures that added meaning or differed in meaning from the words they were saying. 
● While other studies have considered how teachers employ gestures for language teaching, it remains unusual to investigate how L2 learners use their own gestures and facial expressions in unscripted ways. 
● Gesture functioned in an additive rather than a subtractive way. Students provided additional layers of meaning through their gestures that were not present in their oral French. 
● Different types of prompts for video reflections may promote specific gesture functions, although these factors were not evaluated in this study. Prompts included reflecting on designing projects and analyzing language and identity, for example. 
● Future research is needed to understand how L2 learners may use embodied modes (i.e., gestures and facial expressions) distinctly in online and face-to-face contexts. 
● Teachers can encourage students to record their videos multiple times to rehearse and repair their language, rather than textually scripting out their videos. 