
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The study investigated how Vietnamese teachers at one university conducted their online teaching during the pandemic. In particular, the researchers were interested in how the teachers organised interactions to enhance student engagement and how they addressed the challenges of lack of student engagement, technological limitations, and lack of pedagogical support. This provided insight and understanding into how they reacted to unprecedented conditions.  
What the researchers did
 
● Ten English teachers at a university were interviewed. 
● The interviews were transcribed and coded using three different types of interactions: o o o learner-learner interaction, learner material interaction, and instructor-learner interaction. 
What the researchers found
 
● Most of the teachers organised few activities for student-student interaction. 
● For student-content interaction, although all the teachers provided homework assignments, some did not check 
● whether students interacted with the materials or not. In terms of student-teacher interaction, the teachers tended to use the traditional approach for teaching synchronously by lecturing while sharing screens online and communicate asynchronously with students via different platforms. 
● They faced a range of obstacles in setting up interactions for their online teaching: unstable internet connections, limited knowledge of and experience in online teaching, minimal technical skills, and lack of a clear school policy for online education. 
Things to consider
 
● The study recommended that both synchronous and asynchronous activities should be used to formulate more collaborative activities like online forums or group discussions to enhance student interaction. The study highlighted the need for more and better pedagogical and technical training for teachers, as well as clear guidelines from the universities for online learning. 
● This study did not investigate teachers’ evaluations of different activities or the effectiveness of particular activities for meaningful interactions.  
● In addition, the study did also not investigate teachers’ beliefs about online teaching. 
● Finally, it did not examine how the institution’s curriculum affected the interactions. 