
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigated the occurrence of students’ language alternation practices in Zoom meetings for a second language (L2) book club. While there was ample research on language alternation practices in L2 educational contexts, the learning context of this study was very different from those of the others: an extensive reading book club conducted in synchronous online sessions. Moreover, most studies in this field focused on language alternation by the teacher, while the present study focused on language alternation initiated by students through medium repair (i.e., when participants deploy language alternation to solve problems with speaking and understanding). What the researcher did 
● The data for this paper were collected at a voluntary book club for learning English as an L2 at a university in Korea. The book club ran once a week for 10 weeks as an extracurricular activity using Zoom, an online videoconferencing tool. 
● Five university students in their early 20s, who spoke Korean as their first language (L1), joined the book club, 
● which was designed and carried out by a facilitator who spoke English as her L1 and Korean as her L2. In this context, using conversation analysis as an analytical approach, I highlighted instances in which students successfully construct their book talk in English (their L2) but go further by providing translations in Korean (their L1), thus solving problems of understanding and speaking. 
● This study’s excerpts came from the talking phase (i.e., when participants took turns talking about their books) at three meetings (Weeks 3, 6, and 10). The excerpts were selected because, of the 72 cases of language alternation found in the data, these cases most clearly represented the students’ practices of going beyond practicing English through L2-L1 translation in this setting. What the researcher found 
● In the analysis of the students’ language alternation practices, I showed how student-speakers—by translating English (L2) to Korean (L1)—pursue the establishment of mutual understanding to make sure their co-participants understand the ongoing talk both in the recipients’ display of understanding trouble (Excerpts 1 & 2) and in the absence of any display of understanding trouble (Excerpts 3 & 4). 
● The excerpts also showed how the students managed troubles with their L2 constructions by translating them to the L1 within turns (Excerpts 1 & 3) and across turns (Excerpts 2 & 4), while treating the establishment of mutual understanding as a central activity in the doing of book talk. 
● Overall, the excerpts illustrated the students’ strategic uses of L2-L1 translation to achieve specific functions of managing turns as they participate in the book club activity. 
Things to consider
 
● The translations provided not only a quick and easy way to deal with the possibility that understanding troubles were occurring, but also created an interactional space to scaffold and further engage another student. 
● The present study further exemplified how students resort to the L1 as an important resource to further their participation in an L2-oriented interaction to their own satisfaction and to construct themselves as interactionally competent. 
● While providing translations may not be very time-efficient, doing so allowed the participants to establish mutual understanding, to pursue fuller participation, and to manage their L2 constructions when asking and responding to questions or telling their book stories. 