
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Teachers have long been encouraged to actively reflect on their classroom practices. Reflexivity helps teachers to turn back on their own experiences to learn how their past influences their present beliefs, emotions, and activities in the classroom. In this study, we investigated the first author’s lived experiences to address her deep reluctance to use pair/group work activities in my classes. Although previous research has amply documented that teacher mindset is rooted in their own educational experiences, as well as the contexts where those experiences took place, this study showcases that my earlier personal experiences in home culture, even before schooling, have played a significant role in shaping my mindset, emotions, and later practices in the classroom. However, it is discussed that my family culture was a reflection of the larger culture.   
What the researchers did
 
● 
● I (the first author) was the main participant in this study. I have grown up in a middle-class bilingual family. I have a sister senior to me by two years and a younger brother. In my father’s eyes, higher education, particularly, learning English as a foreign language was valued. I started learning English when I was a middle-school student. I obtained my Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in English Language Teaching (ELT). Through doing my thesis, we did this study to trace the origin of my negative emotions and beliefs about pair/group work activities. 
● We used three main sources of data. The first was my personal memory. To refresh my memory, I drew on some memory triggers, such as my albums, old letters, diaries, and other archival materials. The second was my reflective self-narrative about my interpretations, challenges, emotional reactions, etc. Third, I spoke with my family members, friends, and colleagues for gaining deeper insights into my puzzle. 
● We made sense of the narrative data by going back and forth in the data to identify meaningful codes and themes. 
What the researchers found
 
● My narrative showed that the individualistic game that my sister and I played during our childhood in which everyone was responsible for her own game led to our failure in playing with other children. 
● Our strong attachment to and deep respect for our father due to the skillful management of his responsibilities inspired us from an early age to model ourselves on his attitude, values, rules, and norms in our activities. 
● During my education, I seemed to have carried all my emotionally charged cognitive baggage straight into the classroom with me. However, experiencing unproductive pair/group work and contradictions within groups in an educational system that did not value collaboration seem to have reinforced my negativity towards pair/group work activities. 
● Being challenged by my students’ failure to work collaboratively in pairs/groups also strongly contributed to my activating the off switch for pair/group activities in my EFL classes. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that my unconscious decision to avoid using pair/group work activities has its roots in home culture but is reinforced by what I experienced first-hand in pair/group activities across diverse educational settings. 
● Self-reflective studies, like the one we did, may provide an opportunity for teachers to develop a new version of self through making critical interpretations of their past experiences that influence their current activities. 