
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Translingual pedagogies, which view the knowledge and use of multiple languages as an asset, have been proposed and implemented to respond to the increasing linguistic and cultural diversity in today’s classrooms. However, the effects of translingual pedagogies on English as an additional language (EAL) writing vary from facilitating to undermining teaching and learning. To understand the empirical landscape of this young and fast-growing research area, this study systematically reviewed 62 studies to explore what translingual activities have been implemented and how they have impacted EAL writing, teaching, and learning (including primary, secondary, and post-secondary contexts). The findings showed that various translingual activities, such as self-reflective writing and literacy narrative, have been enacted in EAL writing teaching and learning. These activities have been practiced in different ways based on different rhetorical situations. The results showed that translingual pedagogies can complement currently practiced EAL writing pedagogies, increase EAL student writers’ awareness of English monolingualism, facilitate EAL writing teaching in different rhetorical situations, engage students in learning activities, and help view codemeshing as a matter of agency in EAL writing teaching and learning. Despite these benefits, there are some challenges to implementing translingual pedagogies, such as teachers’ and students’ concerns about codemeshing in high-stakes writing, the lack of teacher education and guidance in translingual pedagogies and practices, and the exclusion of some linguistically minoritized students. In sum, translingual pedagogies can enrich EAL writing teaching and learning, albeit with some challenges. 
What the researchers did
 
● Studies reviewed in the present study were primarily located in the Online Library of a large-sized research university, by which articles from a variety of journals can be accessed. 
● The 62 empirical studies were analyzed based on a research synthesis method. 
● Catalogued the translingual activities that have been implemented in EAL writing teaching and learning. 
● Logged how those activities have been implemented. 
● 
● The benefits and challenges were discussed with examples and evidence. Indicated the benefits and challenges of adopting translingual pedagogies in EAL writing teaching and learning. 
What the researchers found
 
● Translingual pedagogies are mainly adopted to complement rather than replace currently practiced EAL writing pedagogies. 
● Translingual pedagogies do not resist English norms and writing conventions but increase students’ awareness of a monolingual understanding of these norms and conventions. 
● Translingual pedagogies can facilitate EAL writing teaching by preparing teachers to design curricula and assignments based on rhetorical situations. 
● Translingual pedagogies can help EAL writing students engage more in their learning activities. 
● Translingual pedagogies view codemeshing as a matter of agency in EAL writing. 
Things to consider
 
● Theoretically, translingual pedagogies call for viewing all languages and language users as assets, empowering all writers with agency in shaping their own language, and increasing writers’ rhetorical sensibilities. 
● Practically, translingual pedagogies complement currently practiced EAL writing pedagogies, increase EAL student writers’ awareness of English monolingualism, facilitate EAL writing teaching in different rhetorical situations, engage students in learning activities, and help view codemeshing as a matter of agency in EAL writing teaching and learning. 
● The challenges pertinent to translingual pedagogies in practice, such as the lack of guidance in students’ translingual practices, the lack of teacher education on translingual pedagogies, and the exclusion of some linguistically minoritized students in EMI contexts, indicate that teachers need to be prepared for implementing translingual pedagogies and guiding students’ translingual practices. 