
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Japanese students are often said to be shy and unwilling to take risks when learning language. Although there has been much research related to motivation and demotivation in Japan, very few, if any, studies have considered students’ motivation from the perspective of the self-worth theory. The self-worth theory claims that the optimal level of human motivation comes from a combination of: 1) having low fear of failure; and 2) having a high drive for success. In this study, we had 383 Japanese junior high school students write short essays describing how they would react to hypothetical situations in which their feelings of self-worth might be threatened. We felt that through this study, we would gain ideas about how to create classroom environments where students would be willing to actively use language without worrying about possible negative consequences of making mistakes. When analyzing the essays, we discovered that students appeared to have high fear of failure and a low-to-medium drive for success in their language learning. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 383 Japanese junior high school students, aged 12–15. 
● Based on their results in proficiency tests and self-perceived proficiency, the participants’ language proficiency was described as intermediate. 
● Participants wrote short essays describing how they would react to three hypothetical situations related to 1) a friend receiving a test result below the class average; 2) not understanding a teachers’ explanation of a grammatical structure; and 3) being asked directions in English outside the classroom. 
● The essays were analyzed based on common words and themes appearing in the students’ essays. 
● We discussed possible reasons for the common words and phrases appearing in the essays and how teachers may be able to develop the positive reactions and prevent negative reactions among students. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the participants appeared to have high fear of failure and a low-to-medium drive for success. 
● The participants were very positive and supportive in encouraging classmates who had received below-average test results. The students focused on the way of studying and strategies when reflecting on test scores. 
● When giving encouragement to friends receiving below-average test scores, little importance was placed on the class average. 
● A large majority (more than 80%) of the students indicated that they would be hesitant to raise their hands to ask questions when they had not understood their teacher’s explanations of English during class. 
● The students wanted to avoid causing problems for others in the class, placing more importance on the group rather than learning at the individual level. 
● If the students were given an opportunity to use English outside of class, the majority would still ask someone who they felt was more fluent to handle the task rather than taking it on themselves. 
● The students placed more importance on speaking English accurately than taking on challenges in which they may make some mistakes. 
Things to consider
 
● More research is needed to investigate whether the students’ encouragement would be similar if it were the students themselves getting below-average scores in tests. That is, follow-up research is necessary to discover whether or not the same positive words of encouragement given to friends would be seen in self-talk. 
● Teachers could consider refraining from giving class averages to encourage comparisons at the individual level rather than with other students in the class; less importance needs to be placed on competition. 
● Teachers could think carefully about the way they praise students to place more focus on the learning process rather than the final product. 
● Teachers could use more group work in their classes to create a team atmosphere and help students see learning as a team effort rather than to be done just by individuals. 