
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In many countries now where English is not the first language, undergraduate students have English both as a compulsory subject and as the language through which they study other subjects for their degree, that is, English is their medium of instruction (EMI). In this situation, it is particularly important for them to have a good knowledge of the English vocabulary that is used in academic contexts. Here “good” knowledge means not only that they can identify the meanings of many words (breadth of knowledge) but also that they know the forms and uses of the words (depth of knowledge). In this study the researchers had two broad aims: to explore new ways of testing depth of knowledge of frequent academic words; and to assess the academic knowledge of a particular population of students in Vietnam who were preparing for EMI study. The results showed that the new test formats worked effectively, especially when the students were given the option of indicating they were “Not Sure” of the correct answer. Overall, the scores revealed that most students had quite limited knowledge of the academic vocabulary in the tests, which meant that they were likely to struggle to comprehend the reading materials in their EMI studies. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers selected 50 target words from the most frequent 200 words in the Academic Vocabulary List, which is based on a large set of academic texts in the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA). 
● They created a Depth Test to assess knowledge of these words, consisting of three parts. Part A tested the ability to identify two other words that were associated in meaning with each target word; Part B assessed the ability to recognize collocations that included the target words; and Part C assessed whether the students could identify other grammatical forms (nouns, verbs, adjectives) of the target words. There was also a Translation test as an independent check of knowledge of the target words in Part A of the test. 
● The updated Vocabulary Levels Test was used to measure the students’ breadth of knowledge of general vocabulary (the 5000 most frequent words in English). 
● The three tests were administered to 260 first-year students in 31 class groups at a major university in Vietnam during class time in their required English language course. They all took the tests on two separate days in one week: the Depth and Translation tests on Day 1 and the Levels Test on Day 2. 
What the researchers found
 
● The Levels Test results showed that the participants lacked breadth of knowledge of general vocabulary. 
● On average they knew only about half of the 150 target words included in the test. In the Depth Test they performed best on Part A (synonyms), followed by Part C (grammatical forms) and then Part B (collocations). The Translation test results generally confirmed that the participants had reported their knowledge of Part A words accurately. 
● The participants were conservative overall in responding to the test items in the Depth Test. Rather than guessing, they made frequent use of the Not Sure option in Parts B and C, especially those who had limited breadth of vocabulary knowledge. 
Things to consider
 
● This study found that only viewing a single academic lecture could lead to learning of single words at the meaning recall level and collocations at the form recognition level. This is encouraging because (a) collocations are crucial for reaching a high level of language proficiency but they are difficult to learn, and (b) in many EAP courses, there is a need for students to understand academic lectures in their subsequent academic study, but resources to help students develop knowledge of academic spoken vocabulary are very limited and teachers do not have sufficient subject-specific knowledge and time to explicitly teach specialized vocabulary. 
● This study found that frequency was likely to play a significant role in incidental vocabulary learning, or at least in the case of single words. Therefore, EAP teachers should provide opportunities for students to repeatedly encounter vocabulary in academic lectures. 
● This study revealed that prior knowledge of general vocabulary did not have a significant effect on incidental vocabulary learning through viewing an academic lecture. Therefore, teachers should not assume that a good knowledge of general vocabulary is sufficient for students to deal with academic spoken English. Apart from helping students learn new vocabulary, it is equally important to help them acquire specialized meanings of general vocabulary. Viewing academic lectures is an excellent way to raise students’ awareness of specialized meanings because vocabulary is used in subject-specific contexts. 