
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigated the effects of creative drama on pre-service teachers’ beliefs about teaching skills. To investigate what pre-service teachers believe about the performing skills in teaching and if/how their beliefs can be transformed during teacher education, the study used Heathcote’s (1984) understanding of creative drama in education and Spolin’s (1999) approach to improvisation. The creative drama course offered in an English Language Teaching program included improvisations, role-plays, and drama games to introduce performance-based practice into second language teacher education. Participant reflections, teaching observations, and interviews showed positive perceptions about using drama in teacher education programs. Therefore, the study discussed performance-based practice embedded in creative drama courses in teacher education with a “teaching as a performing art” approach. 
What the researchers did
 
● Six pre-service teachers who were taking a creative drama course took part in the study. 
● They were introduced to improvisations and creative drama techniques for one semester. 
● They kept a reflective journal during the course and were observed in sample language teaching. 
● To track changes in their beliefs system, they were interviewed before the course, right after the course, one year after the course before they graduated, and two years later as soon as they graduated. 
What the researchers found
 
● The participants revealed positive perceptions, high motivation, and satisfaction about the coursework. 
● They improved personal skills such as confidence, creativity, spontaneity, empathy, communication. 
● They improved professional skills such as using communicative methods, creating a comfortable atmosphere for learners, solving problems, attracting learners’ attention, adapting to new/unexpected situations, using open body language, etc. 
● They noticed a transformational change in the ways they view drama in the classroom and how performing skills are closely related to their professional teaching skills. 
● They came to an awareness about the role of performance-based teaching in teacher education and how they want to shape their own teaching. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings highlight the importance of performance-based teaching embedded in second language teacher education that can be used in methodology courses, lesson-planning, and practicum. 
● The study does not merely suggest the use of drama, but to place it in teacher education as a method to improve pre-service teachers’ performing skills, beliefs systems, personal and professional skills. 
● The factors that might have affected the results during this longitudinal study were aimed to be minimized by drama-focused reflective questions and four interviews throughout the process. 
● Further study can focus on how pre-service teachers’ beliefs about the impacts of drama are reflected in their practices in the profession. 