
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Learner silence, characterized as prolonged nonparticipation in and avoidance of oral classroom activities, poses a concern for many English language instructors. Silent students may not be able to make use of valuable learning opportunities which targeted language interaction affords. Representative research of female English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners in Middle Eastern contexts is scarce. This study is the first to investigate the phenomenon of learner silence among Saudi EFL students. Its novelty lies in its in-depth examination of silence in this context and its gender-focused approach. The study focuses on exploring the prevalence of learners’ silence and learners’ perceptions of classroom silence and the underlying factors contributing to their silence behavior. The findings highlight the complexity of students’ silence and emphasize the need to view language learner silence as a multi-dimensional phenomenon. 
What the researchers did
 
● Language learner silence is understood in this study as a multi-dimensional and context-specific phenomenon. It requires a combination of qualitative and quantitative methodologies to be clearly examined. Thus, a mixed-methods approach was employed. 
● First, 12 hours of structured observations of students’ performance in EFL classroom were conducted using an observation scheme to record learners’ instances of talk and silence during the lessons following a minute-by-minute recording system. 
● A total of 296 EFL students from three female universities in Saudi Arabia were observed in order to evaluate the prevalence of learner silence and identify the recurrent behavioral patterns in this context. 
● Second, to gain a deeper understanding of learners’ in-class silences, qualitative interviews (semi-structured interviews and stimulated recall sessions) were conducted.  
● The semi-structured interviews were conducted with six students (two learners per university) with different majors and levels of English proficiency based on the researcher’s observation as well as the teacher’s recommendations. 
● Stimulated recall sessions were also conducted with three further students who consistently displayed silent behavior during observed classes. 
What the researchers found
 
● The observation revealed a significant amount of learner silence. Students were found to spend almost 90% of their class time in silence. The results also revealed an extreme lack of student-initiated talk which amounted to less than 1% of all classroom activity time. 
● The qualitative data revealed how students view themselves and their discourse patterns within EFL classrooms, with participants conceptualizing their silence as an expected feminine behavior. 
● It also uncovered that learner silence in this context is shaped by (i) factors relating to prevailing EFL teaching styles in Saudi Arabia; (ii) socio-psychological factors linked to language anxiety and social inhibition in the classroom; and (iii) cultural factors associated with the traditional value of silence in Saudi society. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings highlight the complexity of learner silence and emphasize that female learners’ silence should be studied in light of the interplay of individual psychological factors and environmental influences (at immediate classroom and wider societal levels). 
● As learner silence is multidimensional, it can only be effectively dealt with by adopting a multi-strategy approach encompassing both pedagogical technique and language planning. 
● There emerges a need for a context appropriate form of CLT in which teachers as well as students would be made fully aware of the important role that meaningful target-language interaction plays in the SLA process, whilst at the same time emphasizing pedagogical strategies which takes into account students’ tendency towards silent behavior. 