
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Participation in online courses has become important for training language teachers worldwide with various skills in using computer technologies to teach language. Most online teacher training courses provide asynchronous learning and communication opportunities (they are allowed to participate based on their own schedules) to facilitate meaningful learning for participants. Although we expect the participants to keep engaging with other peer participants actively through the online course platform, the realities of participants, who also have a job or two and a family to support, limit their participation levels. This study investigated how participants engaged in asynchronous discussion activities and interacted with other course participants in an 8-week global online teacher training course through the cases of nine participants. The study showed that, overall, asynchronous online discussions were effective in promoting learning among the participants. We also identified the characteristics of two participants who served as social mediators to connect participants with each other.  
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were nine English teachers from six countries who took the global online teacher training course. 
● We looked at the written records of the participants’ discussion posts and replies in the online course platform. 
● We first analyzed qualitative patterns in the participants' engagement with the course content on the discussion boards and how they align with the specific goals of each discussion assignment. 
● We generated plots to visualize the quantitative patterns in the interaction among the participants (who replied to whom, how many times) in the discussion replies. 
● We further analyzed what functions the participants’ replies served on the discussion boards (for instance, expressing agreements/disagreements/appreciation with peers, giving suggestions, etc.). 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, participants engaged actively with the course content aligning with the course goals and expectations. 
● Of the nine participants analyzed, two were particularly active and played a vital role in the discussions, serving as a bridge between other participants. 
● Active participants expressed appreciation for other peer participants, encouraged others to share their opinions by asking questions, and expressed a sense of community with others through the replies on the discussion boards. 
Things to consider
 
● The reply portion of our discussion assignments enabled the participants to construct and develop knowledge by exchanging feedback. 
● Participants built a community of practice by exchanging supportive comments and encouragements or explicitly expressing a sense of community. 
● Providing specific guidelines about how to interact with peer participants helped promote peer-to-peer interaction. 
● To elicit more active participation among the course participants, online course designers can provide explicit examples of good discussion posts and replies to encourage the participants to use probing questions and prompt actions. Material: N/A 