
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examined experience and silence of a focal student by collecting different sources of data and using a theoretical framework of academic social space. This framework draws on language socialization, agency, and production of space to situate the students’ experiences in an ecological perspective. This research is important because it shows that silence is produced spatially and as a result of the interplay among perceived, conceived, and lived forces in social space. 
What the researchers did
 
● The focal student in this study was a 19-year-old female from Japan. She came to New Zealand for one year to study English and a few undergraduate courses towards a degree in International Studies from her university in Japan. She had intermediate proficiency at the time of the study and was able to produce simple speech fluently. The course she took part in was an English for Academic Purposes course designed to prepare those for whom English was an additional language for university study. 
● To understand the complexities of the international student’s language socialization in her second language (L2) academic social space, this study adopted a longitudinal case study research design. 
● The international student’s academic social space consisted of the perceived space (space as seen), the conceived space (space as thought), and the lived space (space as felt). 
● The study employed various sources of data including self-reports by focal student, interviews with focal student/teacher/tutor, classroom observations, and video/audio recordings, field notes, and other documents. 
● The study used discourse analysis with a particular focus on the content and themes to analyze the naturalistic data from the focal student. 
What the researchers found
 The findings of this study showed that: 
● Social space participated in the focal student’s academic socialization and her silence. 
● In understanding silence, it is important that we consider how the individual is positioned in and by their physical space, how they are socialized into the norms and practices, and how they interact with others, and understand their relationship with others in the lived space. 
● Despite being silent due to the ecological conditions (i.e., the conditions imposed upon her in the social space) in which she was situated, the focal student exercised different forms of agency to gain access to her learning community and make the best of her academic and social situation. 
Things to consider
 
● Silence is the outcome of an interplay among three forces of perceived, conceived, and lived space. Hence, any interpretation of silence without considering the social space and its constituting elements is not all-inclusive and hence incomplete. 
● Perceived, conceived, and lived aspects of space may position international students into a silent position. 
● This study goes beyond the conceptualization of an investment model and introduces the concept of ‘academic social space’ as a theoretical construct to understand the silence of international students in the classroom. 