
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Understanding aural messages in a second language is affected by many things. One is how well learners control their thoughts about listening (known as metacognitive awareness). Although such awareness has been examined in relation to listening comprehension, the results have been mixed. Some studies reported a positive relationship, whereas no relationship was found in other studies. To resolve this inconsistency, we collected studies and summarized the results statistically. We found three things. First, metacognitive awareness was a single concept, consisting of five subcategories. Second, metacognitive awareness was weakly related to listening comprehension. Third, the relationship was affected by learner and study features. 
What the researchers did
 
● We found 29 studies exploring the link between metacognitive awareness and listening comprehension. 
● We read each study and recorded information such as (a) the strength of the relationship between metacognitive awareness and listening comprehension and (b) the number of participating learners. 
● We examined features that may affect these relationships: whether studies were published or unpublished, whether listening comprehension tests required learners to select answers or write them, and whether learners were at secondary schools or universities. 
● We combined information across studies statistically to derive the average strength of the relationship between metacognitive awareness and listening comprehension. We repeated the process to investigate how this relationship was affected by learner and study features. 
What the researchers found
 
● Metacognitive awareness was, overall, a single concept, consisting of five subcategories. Problem solving, planning, and focus–attention styles were more important than translation styles or learners’ self-impression of their listening. 
● Metacognitive awareness was weakly related to listening comprehension. Learners who are better able to control their thinking about listening were more likely to listen and understand spoken texts well. 
● The relationship looked stronger for published studies than for unpublished ones, for listening tests that required selecting answers than written responses, and for secondary school than university students. 
Things to consider
 
● The importance of problem solving, planning, and focus–attention styles in relation to metacognitive awareness was consistent with prior findings. Our finding was based on as many studies as we had been able to collect, suggesting that these styles play an essential role in controlling thoughts about listening. 
● The weak relationship between metacognitive awareness and listening comprehension differed across features. Considering these features, along with others (e.g., listeners’ familiarity with a listening topic), would help researchers better explain inconsistent results across studies. 