
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A former British colony and a growing economic power, India is home to one of the largest English-speaking populations worldwide. There are 22 officially recognized Indian languages, but English is considered the official associate language, predominant among the elite and in workplaces, the media, and the government. In recognition of the global economic push for English and Indian parents’ resulting aspirations for their children to learn it, the Indian government has made extraordinary attempts to mobilize the teaching of English in public schools. But how successful have such endeavours been? This study used interviews to ask impoverished parents and schoolteachers for their views on the teaching and learning of English in government run schools in the city of Baroda in India. The study showed that while low-income parents want their children to learn English, they are frustrated by the poorly qualified teachers and the low quality of education and support that their children are receiving. 
What the researchers did
 
● Nineteen impoverished parents and five teachers from government-run schools participated in this study. 
● In-depth interviews in Hindi and/or Gujarati were conducted at the parents’ house or in the teachers’ school. 
● During the first part of the interview, a sentence-completion task was used to obtain information about their unconscious expectations and ideas about school, teachers, and education (e.g., “School is _______” and “Teachers are ______”). 
● Then, open-ended questions were used to invite them to speak about their ideas about educational success and failure, and their opinions about schools, teachers, and the educational system. 
● Group interviews were also utilized, in which 6-8 parents were brought together to obtain their beliefs and opinions about schools, education, and educational success. 
What the researchers found
 
● The parents and teachers were generally optimistic about the quality of education in today’s India. 
● They were sharply aware of the extraordinary pervasiveness of English in India. They were frustrated by the early introduction of English in school at the expense of the children’s mother tongue. 
● Still, they saw English as synonymous with education, opportunity, and status. They viewed it as a commodity that would help breach the ancient barriers of caste and ensure socio-economic mobility for their children. 
● In their view, the teachers were not effective in teaching English to their children because they themselves did not know the language well, and because they were lazy. 
● Most parents could not support their children at home in the learning of English. So, most enrolled their children in private coaching classes for English. 
● The teachers laid a large portion of the blame for their ineffectiveness on the enormous administrative and instructional burden placed upon them. 
Things to consider
 
● For years, Gujarati and Hindi were learnt long before English was introduced in middle or high school. Now English is introduced early, and Indian languages are underemphasized. This perplexes the parents, while also threatening, in the long run, to destroy their language and culture. 
● This situation raises questions about the intentions and effects of applying business models to education. The resulting commodification underlines and widens gaps in an already severely stratified social order. 
● The thoughtful and poignant narrative of these parents invite us to ask whose interests are being served by the Western-dominated, English-intensive globalization. 