
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study compared the efficacy of two instructional methods for teaching complex metaphorical motion constructions in Spanish with the aim of developing their metaphoric competence in the target language. Metaphorical motion is construed through a verb of motion which has a non-motion interpretation and involves metaphorical change of location. Some examples are ‘I’m running out of time’ or ‘Me pongo histérico’. This latter, where motion occurs in an imaginary manner and the experiencer metaphorically moves from one emotional state to another, was the type of construction under study here. The teaching and testing in this study were inspired by cognitive linguistic principles. Among others, they included audiovisual media exposure, and they drew attention to similarities and differences in the figurative or metaphorical expression of emotions in the learners’ first (English) and second (Spanish) languages, as well as to the differing source (motion, position) and target (different emotions) domains. The first teaching method, inspired by cognitive linguistics principles, involved making students aware of how language arises from physical interaction with the world (e.g., motion). It also aimed at bridging gaps between English and Spanish, enhancing interlinguistic reasoning and critical thinking. The second teaching method was based on current L2 textbooks, which follow a communicative and formalist approach to language teaching. The learning sequence was 1) brainstorming activity about the expression of different emotions, visual cues and different contextual situations. 2) The explicit introduction of the change-of-state verb ponerse and attention was given to its temporary and spontaneous nature. Students were offered a list of adjectives that co-occur with this verb to denote positive and negative emotions, which were introduced in different colors, as well as some examples. 3) in assembly, students were asked to produce a few sentences using the constructions under study. Comparing these two teaching methods is important because it can shed light on which pedagogy can be more beneficial to learn complex emotion expressions in Spanish: the one that prevails or an innovative one. 
What the researchers did
 
● 33 students from a university in North America, who were A2+ learners of Spanish and whose first language was English, participated in the study as they learned how to conceptualize and express their emotions. 
● Researchers designed and implemented two instruction packages, one based on cognitive linguistics principles, and another one following a functional-notional approach. Both packages were aimed at teaching different forms of the “ponerse + adjective” construction (e.g., ponerse histérico). 
● Assessment tests, based on cognitive linguistic principles, were administered before and after teaching to measure learners' general metaphor comprehension (Task 1) and original (creative) production (Task 2), as well as their comprehension (Task 3) and production (Task 4) of change-of-state constructions (e.g., ponerse triste ‘get sad’). 
What the researchers found
 
● Students exposed to a cognitive linguistics instruction not only improved their general metaphor comprehension and production, but they also showed a superior performance in the comprehension and production of the taught figurative motion expressions. 
● Overall, learners performed better in comprehension tasks than in production tasks. 
Things to consider
 
● This study shows that a cognitive linguistics-based pedagogy, when followed by coherent data collection tools, can be a productive approach for teaching and learning complex constructions. 
● This innovative method for teaching and assessing = better learning gains, especially for the cognitive group. 
● This study emphasizes the crucial role of metaphor and figurative thinking on communicative competence. 
● This study furthermore sheds light on the difficulties in restructuring metaphorical and contributes to refining pedagogical and assessment materials in the teaching of figurative motion events in the L2 classroom. 
● The low number of students and that the cognitive group had the largest number are limitations to be considered. 
● Further investigations with more students could help corroborate our promising findings. 
● Studies with longer intervals between testing periods could explore students’ metaphoric competence development. 
● This study contributes to the small but emergent body of literature that researches L2s other than English. 