
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In verbal communication, people rely on the use of rhythm, stress, and intonation, to clarify meaning in speech and resolve ambiguities by dividing our speech into chunks and showing which parts are most important. Given that the use of these features of speech signals varies across languages due to different prosodic systems, non-native speakers’ use of prosodic cues (duration, pitch, and intensity) may inevitably differ from those of native speakers. This study used a contextualized production task and perception judgments, along with acoustic analyses to assess the use of prosodic cues for resolving the ambiguities in both syntactic structure and information structure by Chinese English as a foreign language (EFL) learners in comparison to native English speakers. The researchers found that Chinese EFL learners did alter their prosodic cues to express different meanings, but differently from native English speakers in both cue number and cue combination. This study provides valuable information for both language educators and researchers. It underscores the importance of considering speech prosody in foreign language teaching and highlights the need for further research to better understand the use of prosodic cues by non-native speakers. 
What the researchers did
 ⚫ A total of 26 native speakers of Mandarin Chinese were recruited as the experimental group and 23 native speakers of American English were recruited as the contrast group. ⚫ The participants were instructed to read twelve brief texts in a casual manner. These texts presented two scenarios for six ambiguous sentences, such as the sentence "She gave her dog biscuits," which was placed in two distinct contexts: either "She gave her dog/biscuits" (Context A) or "She gave her/dog biscuits" (Context B). ⚫ Two native speakers of American English were invited to listen to all the data collected from the production task and to judge whether the participants could produce meaning-appropriate prosody. ⚫ Based on the perception judgments, two target sentences were chosen for further acoustic analyses (detailed sound analysis) to examine the differences in using prosodic cues. 
What the researchers found
 ⚫ Chinese EFL learners cannot produce meaning-appropriate prosody for native listeners to disambiguate ambiguities in either syntactic or information structure in English. ⚫ Chinese EFL learners adopt different prosodic strategies in both cue number and cue combination from native English speakers by changing a narrower range of cues and providing insufficient prosodic information in speech disambiguation. 
Things to consider
 ⚫ The results of the perception judgments show that the type of ambiguity can influence prosodic disambiguation, which suggests that linguistic structure may play a part in speakers’ selection of disambiguation strategies. So in future studies, it would be beneficial to adopt a more specific categorization of types of ambiguity. ⚫ The discrepancy found in cue use suggests that Chinese EFL learners have not acquired prosodic strategies of the English language and this highlights the importance of prosodic training in foreign language teaching and the explicit learning process. 