
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Second language experts have advocated for using multiliteracies pedagogies in language courses, but little is known about student experiences with college multiliteracies courses. This article examines the perspectives of 185 undergraduate students enrolled in a fourth-semester French multiliteracies course at a university in the United States. Findings demonstrate how the digital multimodal (i.e., blending image, text, sound, audio, etc.) projects in the class helped students to overcome challenges and engage with social issues. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 185 undergraduate students of French as a second language, enrolled in a fourth semester intermediate French course from 2018-2020. 
● The French course curriculum was designed iteratively from 2017-2020 and centered “multiliteracies curriculum,” in which students work with multiple modes (e.g., speech, gesture, color, image, font) to transform meaning through project-based-learning. 
● Projects included digital poetry, a mock presidential campaign, and a debate about language laws in Canada. 
● The researcher, who was also one of the course instructors, collected student coursework (376 video reflections and 265 digital multimodal projects) and 10 focal interviews from the 185 participants. 
● The researcher analyzed the student projects to understand student experiences with designing digital multimodal projects when participating in a French multiliteracies curriculum. 
What the researchers found
 
● In their video reflections and projects, students developed critical literacy, or the ability to bridge local and national issues to course content by taking a stance and illustrating their opinions on contentious issues. 
● While designing digital multimodal projects, students developed a “growth mindset,” or the belief that they could improve their French abilities by overcoming challenges and having fun. 
● The collaborative nature of the projects and other coursework helped to create a classroom community in which students were comfortable making mistakes in French to learn. 
● Some students encountered constraints regarding needing to speak and listen to French in spontaneous, unscripted contexts. 
● A minority of students grappled with time constraints regarding the project-based nature of the multiliteracies learning, especially during the switch to Zoom pandemic learning in Spring 2020. 
Things to consider
 
● There is currently no previous research that explicitly underlines the connection between L2 multiliteracies pedagogies and growth mindset. It is likely that the various genres of multimodal projects inspired students to take the reins of their language learning journey and thus develop a growth mindset. 
● Instructors did not expect for students to almost instinctively tie their lived stories and political beliefs into the course. This illustrates how multiliteracies can help students incorporate their own lived experiences into their language learning. 
● This study’s findings suggest that multiliteracies curricula are not a one-size fits all approach for L2 teaching contexts. Rather, curriculum should be adjusted based on the context, language level, and needs of the learners. 
● To strengthen students’ skills, multiliteracies coursework should be integrated from the beginner sequence of college language coursework, which may equip students to engage with less anxiety when participating in both beginner and intermediate level coursework. 