
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Although previous research has identified positive impact of professional development (PD) on teachers’ self-efficacy, there is scant research into the potential relationships between self-efficacy and PD of second language (L2) teachers, especially L2 teachers of languages other than English. This study examined self-efficacy in the application of professional standards and PD of Chinese language teachers in North Carolina secondary schools. Results of the study showed that teachers’ perceived PD benefits and PD support predicted their self-efficacy. Regular critical reflections, active involvement in the professional community, and various sources of PD support were also found to be important contributors to teachers’ self-efficacy development. 
What the researchers did
 
● Forty-seven Chinese language teachers teaching at the secondary level in the State of North Carolina participated in the study. 
● The teachers completed an online survey. The survey collected the teachers’ demographic information and teaching experience. In addition, the questions regarding self-efficacy were can-do statements based on published professional standards for K-12 Chinese language teachers. The questions regarding teachers’ PD asked about their thoughts on the quality and benefits of PD activities and their reflections on PD needs and the PD support received. 
● Based on the teachers’ response to the survey, the researcher selected eight teachers for follow-up interviews, including two teachers with high self-efficacy and PD benefits scores, two teachers with mid-level self-efficacy and PD benefits scores, two teachers with low self-efficacy and PD benefits scores, one teacher with high self-efficacy score but low PD benefits score, and one teacher with low self-efficacy score but high PD benefits score. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers who had higher self-efficacy tend to report higher PD benefits and PD support and vice versa. 
● Regular critical reflections, active involvement in the professional community of Chinese language teachers, and PD support contribute to teachers’ self-efficacy development. 
● Some teachers with low self-efficacy discussed how cultural barrier hindered their communication and relationship with students. 
● Many teachers expressed medium- to high-level of PD needs regardless of their self-efficacy ratings as they try to keep abreast with current best practices and take the initiatives for continuing education. 
Things to consider
 
● The survey responses and interview data provided by the teachers may be subjected to personal bias. Therefore, findings of the study should be interpreted with caution. 
● Findings of this study suggest dire needs to advocate the importance of critical reflections to teachers and to provide ample opportunities for reflective practice both during and after PD programs. 
● This study underscores the crucial role of emotional support from the professional community in teachers’ PD and self-efficacy growth. 
● Results of this study call for future research for richer understanding of how critical reflections and communities of practice may contribute to sustained PD of L2 teachers with low self-efficacy. 
● This study identified teachers’ age, self-reported proficiency in English, and school setting as significant predictors of self-efficacy. Future research may explore the potential impact of these factors on teachers’ self-efficacy. 