
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Foreign language learning is a complex and lengthy process that is perfused with an array of learning obstacles and emotional challenges, which will influence learners’ emotional well-being and language achievement. What psychological factors does the language educator need to focus on? What effective measures should they employ in the process of second language (L2) learning and teaching? Previous studies, though few in number, have investigated the tangled relationship between grit, emotions, and language-learning achievements in the education setting. Grit can be defined as a combination of perseverance and passion for long-term goals. It is unknown whether grit, enjoyment, and boredom could predict English learning achievements among very under-explored Chinese ethnic minority students. The findings of this study have the potential to inform language educators on the psychological factors and effective measures to focus on in the process of second language learning and teaching. 
What the researchers did
 
● 504 Chinese ethnic minority students at the secondary school level, aged between 12 to 16 participated in the study. They spoke Tibetan as their first language, Chinese Mandarin as their second language, and English as their third language. 
● Given findings of previous research and practical experience, an English language learning mechanism made up of personality strength, emotion, and language achievement was proposed in the present study. 
● To understand learners’ emotional profiles and validate the proposed model of learning, learners were invited to complete a questionnaire. An example item from the questionnaire is: “I often set a goal but later choose to pursue a different one in learning English”. With responses ranging from 1-5 (one = strongly disagree and five = strongly agree). 
● Students’ final term English examination grades were used to measure their English learning achievement. 
● Analysis of the questionnaire responses determined learners’ emotional profiles and the effect of grit, enjoyment, and boredom on English learning achievement. 
What the researchers found
 
● Grit is defined as being made up of perseverance and passion / interest. Thus, the current study should separately consider the role of perseverance of effort and consistency of interest in language learning. 
● Students show a higher level of enjoyment and a lower level of boredom in language learning. 
● Both perseverance and passion / interest influence emotions and learning achievements, yet perseverance of effort appears to be the stronger influence. 
● Both enjoyment and boredom mediate the effect of grit and English learning achievement, and positive emotions have a stronger effect. 
Things to consider
 
● Positive emotion and positive character strength, grit and enjoyment, are vital human elements for encouraging language to flourish. Language practitioners are advised to collect evidence of effective intervention measures to nurture learners’ perseverance and interest and foster a happy learning atmosphere to achieve better learning results. 
● Enjoyment and boredom co-exist in the language learning process, but the positive emotion obtains a stronger effect. Therefore, language educators are advised to actively promote positive emotions in the classroom. 