
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Research has shown that much of our language use follows predictable patterns. Vocabulary researchers refer to this as formulaic language. An example of formulaic language is multi-word expressions, for example, I think I will, can you tell me, how do I get. These expressions may not catch the attention of language learners, yet they are very common in our communications. Language learners stand to benefit from noticing and learning how to use such expressions because they are associated with greater speaking fluency. This research demonstrates a set of classroom activities which were found to be effective in helping learners increase their knowledge and use of multi-word expressions in their conversations. Expected gains in fluency, however, were not observed. 
What the researchers did
 
● Provided instruction and practice with 30 multi-word expressions using a fluency workshop approach. 
● Fluency workshop included pronunciation practice (shadowing), listen & write activities (dicto-gloss), memorise and share (mingle jigsaw), and role-plays all using the multi-word expressions. 
● Classroom activities were held over 6 weeks in a university language learning setting in Japan. 
● 116 participants were involved (65 in the fluency workshop group) (CEFR A2 level). 
What the researchers found
 
● Multi-word expression use increased in conversations after the fluency workshop. 
● Greater vocabulary knowledge supported increases in multi-word expression knowledge. 
● Greater multi-word expression use did not result in an immediate increase in fluency. 
Things to consider
 
● Direct instruction and practice in the classroom are beneficial for learning multi-word expressions. 
● Use of multi-word expressions (especially freshly learned expressions) by learners may not improve fluency. 
● Improving overall vocabulary knowledge will assist in the acquisition of multi-word expressions. 
● Classroom materials and activities can be adapted to highlight the presence of multi-word expressions and provide practice opportunities. 