
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Researchers and educators are interested in understanding how learners use and develop their language beyond the classroom. Many learners engage in ‘informal activities’ in their second language like watching videos, listening to music, or chatting with others in person or online. This paper introduces the Informal Second Language Engagement Questionnaire, a new research instrument for better studying informal activities and how they promote language learning. The questionnaire is used to collect information about the different activities in which learners engage, for how long, and how enjoyable they find them. It also tries and distinguish between how much attention learners generally bring to an activity and how much they focus on understanding and learning specific language features. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher interviewed 47 secondary school pupils in Germany, who were learners of English as a foreign language. 
● The pupils described how and why they engaged in foreign language activities beyond the classroom. 
● Based on the interviews and existing questionnaires developed for other research contexts, the researcher wrote an initial set of questions about what participants were doing, thinking, and feeling when they used English in their free time. 
● The initial questionnaire was tested with 77 pupils, who filled it in on their mobile phones every time they took part in an informal activity in English over the course of one week. 
● Statistical tests were used to select the questions that best measured different aspects of engagement in informal activities. 
● A further 254 students used the shortened questionnaire for one week to record their activities. 
● The researcher conducted more statistical analyses to test the questionnaire and compare it to another common type of survey, in which research participants estimate how often they ‘typically’ engage in different informal activities. 
What the researchers found
 
● The new questionnaire can be used to collect rich data about how learners use their language beyond the classroom. 
● Unlike other more common types of surveys, the new questionnaire does not only collect information about the types of activities learners engage in and how often. It also distinguishes between what learners feel, how focused they are on the activity at hand, and how much they concentrate on understanding and learning new language features. 
Things to consider
 
● The new questionnaire could be further improved through more research. For example, other questions may better distinguish between how much attention learners bring to an activity and how much they focus on understanding and learning specific language features. 
● The questionnaire was developed and tested with German learners of English. It remains to be seen whether it works equally well for studies with learners of other languages and/or in other countries. 
● There are practical considerations for using the new questionnaire, such as when to collect the data and how to make sure that research participants consistently report all informal activities in which they take part across multiple days. 