
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This paper offers a research review motivated by the following question: Which theoretical and empirical insights can inform language-in-education research that advances equitable and high-quality learning at school? This question is important because in our linguistically diverse and demanding world, schools are urged to equip students with the language and literacy tools to solve complex problems, construct and evaluate knowledge, and to participate civically and politically. Too often, however, educational systems around the world fail to meet these needs and even reinforce entrenched societal inequities. 
What the researchers did
 This three-part article reviews evidence that foregrounds: (1) the need to counteract linguistic discrimination and to strive for more just and rigorous scientific practices in research and education; (2) the need for educational practices and research driven by equity and rigor to pay attention to midadolescents’ individual differences in language for learning; and (3) key insights from recent innovative evidence-based pedagogical approaches to language and content learning that attend to students’ multiple identities. 
What the researchers found
 
● Whether intentionally or unintentionally, a too-narrow focus on “correct” language forms in educational settings can blind researchers and practitioners to the full range of students’ knowledge and capabilities. As a result, the voices of students from minoritized linguistic and cultural backgrounds are often devalued and silenced for deviating from the conventional norms of school discourse, damaging their learning. 
● A robust research base supports the idea that language learning continues throughout adolescence as learners encounter new opportunities to use language for different purposes across contexts (e.g., texting a friend vs. writing a school essay), and that the cultural communicative expectations of schooling must be made explicit. 
● Recent evidence-based frameworks and innovative classroom pedagogies invite students to creatively draw upon their own multilingual/multidialectal resources to comprehend and communicate a text’s meaning while also paying attention to expand students’ school-relevant language resources. 
Things to consider
 
● The author argues for counteracting linguistic injustices and affirming learners’ languages and identities, while also socializing youth into scientific practices to equip them with the tools to access, criticize, and construct scientific knowledge and to expand their resources to understand themselves in the world and to reinvent society’s status quo. 
● The author calls for language-conscious education that expands students’ school-relevant language resources while inviting and empowering youth not merely to abide by the conventions of school discourse, but to draw creatively and reflectively from their multilingual/multidialectal resources to make sense of text and better communicate their own meanings. 
● The author calls for research with a dual focus on equity and rigor which contributes to moving away from silencing pedagogies, which silence marginalized students’ voices, toward “pedagogies of voices,” which affirm all learners’ voices while amplifying their language repertoires and critical learning.   