
What this research was about and why it is important 
 British higher education institutions attract a large number of Chinese students to pursue degrees in the UK every year. Therefore, it is particularly important to understand their study abroad experience and the quality of their second language (L2) exposure. This study tracked the informal language contact and social networks of Chinese foundation program students in the UK for two terms. Data revealed that the participants did not have much English interaction in the host country. This study underscores that degree-oriented study abroad participants may have different prioritization and leisure time routines compared with summer school participants or exchange students abroad. Thus, with an extra foundation year in the host country, the current sample seemed to prioritize academic preparation, rather than social integration. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study collected quantitative and qualitative data from Chinese foundation program students in two universities in England once per term and twice in total (November 2019 and February 2020). 
● 84 students completed a Language Contact Questionnaire, which asked about their frequency of using English in different activities. They also completed a Study Abroad Social Network Survey, which collected information on their English-speaking friendship patterns. They finished both surveys on their mobile phones in class. 
● Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 26 participants face-to-face within one week of their survey completion. The purpose was to understand more details of their English use and English-speaking friendship outside class. 
● The researcher described and compared the changes in language contact and social networks over time and analyzed the themes in the interview data. 
What the researchers found
 
● In terms of language contact, most Chinese foundation students used Chinese more than English in their spare time. There were higher frequencies of compulsory English activities, such as writing homework and speaking with service personnel, than voluntary leisure English activities, such as speaking English with friends and watching English TV series. 
● There was a significant increase in the Chinese social media use of the participants and a significant decrease in speaking English with international friends in February 2020, probably due to the COVID-19 outbreak in China. 
● Regarding social networks, the participants’ relationships with international friends were relatively superficial, distant, and ephemeral. They had strong Chinese friendship circles and had difficulties making local British friends. 
● The few breakthroughs of cross-cultural friendships were either romantic relationships or happened between friends from nearby countries with common goals or similar life experiences. 
Things to consider
 
● The high proportion of academic-related English contact among Chinese students might be attributed to a range of contextual factors, learner traits, and program features. For example, the program aimed to develop academic competence; the students had cultural and language barriers in socialization; they cared about academic achievements more than extracurricular experiences. 
● As for social networks, the strong available Chinese-speaking network deprived many students of the need to seek international friendship and the academic pressure further made them retreat to their comfort zone. 
● The findings might be applicable to the massive number of lower-intermediate level Chinese students in Anglophone countries abroad. 
● Two limitations of this study are severe participant attrition and the volunteering sample for the interview. It is possible that the participants who volunteered to be interviewed tended to be more motivated or open-minded. Thus, less qualitative data were obtained from the more reserved participants. 