
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Integrating affective literacy practices that include diversity by constructing common cultural threads into critical literacy-based language teaching is highly beneficial in intercultural English as a foreign language (EFL)/English as a Second Language (ESL) classrooms. In this study an innovative pedagogical experience approached diversity through cinema-based affective literacy practices in the EFL/ESL classroom. The intention was to raise EFL/ESL pre-service teachers’ awareness of the important responsibility teachers have as agents of positive social change, particularly regarding language, gender, and race discrimination. The researchers followed a social justice approach to education in designing and implementing a workshop to develop affective literacy practices targeted at 49 pre-service teachers from the Master’s programme in EFL/ESL Teacher Training at the Complutense University of Madrid (Spain). Then, they analysed the experience’s results through flexible interviews with 20 teachers who volunteered to participate in the study. The results point to the success of the experience and unveil implications for future lines of work. 
What the researchers did
 
● They designed and implemented a 3-hour workshop revolving around The Good Lie (2014) trailer based on a self-developed framework for implementing affective literacy practices through cinema. The workshop was aimed at enhancing the development of affective literacy among pre-service EFL/ESL teachers. 
● They analysed the 20 pre-service teacher participants’ opinions about the workshop by inviting them to share their perceptions through flexible interviews that were conducted conversationally. 
What the researchers found
 
● About 90% of the pre-service teacher respondents argued in favour of incorporating these practices into their future teaching practice. 
● Most respondents agreed on the positive effects of the workshop activities as a pedagogical tool to teach students to understand others’ feelings and emotions, reflect on social issues, put themselves in other people’s shoes, and explore unfamiliar cultures and situations. 
● Pre-service teachers also commented that films could be an excellent tool to create emotional bonds, making one feel along with others physically as if their emotions were contagious. 
● Their observations focused mainly on cognitive aspects, pointing out that films foster intellectual growth and maturity. 
● They also commented on the advantages of films for facilitating students’ intercultural encounters in the language classroom, pointing to the opportunities that films give us to get acquainted with new cultural realities, learn to identify differences and compare practices, traditions and habits. 
Things to consider
 
● This innovative pedagogical experience has succeeded in raising future teachers’ awareness of language, gender and race discrimination which supports the latest efforts of the 2030 Agenda to promote peaceful and inclusive societies and the UNESCO directives to introduce alternative pedagogical practices in support of a Global Citizenship Education aimed at building fair and inclusive societies. 
● The experience can help those researchers and future language teachers willing to incorporate affective literacy practices into their classrooms. 
● There is still work to be done to incorporate social justice debates on the politics of recognition and representation in education. 
● Beyond films, diverse video-based materials, such as documentaries or series, need to be the object of further research. 