
What this research was about and why it is important 
  ESL/EAP instructors in higher education increasingly occupy marginal university positions. Once hired into full time faculty association positions with benefits and protections, instructors have been de-unionized through attrition over the past two decades, now often lacking minimum provision of protections that can make precarious employment manageable. Asking “How do English Language teachers teaching in non-credit, university-preparation EAP programs in research-focused universities define 1) their professional identities in relation to their working conditions, and 2) notions of instructor competence in relation to evaluation metrics and contract renewal?”, we use discourse analysis and the lens of social positioning theory to understand why individuals may lack agency to act in their own best interests within a social system, even when they recognize they are being oppressed within it. Of particular interest to us is the increasing university reliance on precarious instructor “magic time”, an uncompensated, largely invisible, but expanding category of labour including, but not limited to, writing reference letters, informal mentorship or internship processes, up-credentialing, pastoral care, differentiating for accessibility needs, traversing multiple contract/research sites, revision, Indigenization or internationalization of curricula, and others. 
What the researchers did
 
● We examined all job advertisements found on university websites for EAP instructor positions at two Canadian universities, one a member of the U15 Group of Universities, and the other primarily an undergraduate institution. 
● Using a semi-structured interview protocol focused on precarity and increasing workload, we examined instructors’ (N = 9) and curriculum-level administrator’s (N = 1) perceptions and lived experiences of those positions in comparison with the job advertisements. 
● Most instructors held Masters/Ph.D degrees in TESOL/EAP and were overqualified for marginal contract positions. 
● EAP programmes shrunk in the pandemic; our sample represents more than half of the remaining instructors. 
● Our coding and analysis led us to focus on three aspects of gigification in this article: Unpaid work, student evaluation of instructors, and precarity (working-conditions-as-lived). 
What the researchers found
 
● We documented intersections between exploitive, contract-based, gigified academic labour and its reliance on chronic underpay, job insecurity, and surveillance as prominent features of precarious work 
● We explored the confusing rhetoric and expectations of EAP instructors, in which advertised positions are professionalized, as indicated by heavy emphases on professional and academic credentials, while advertised low hourly pay and fungibility are more often representative of proletarianization. 
● Particularly in the pandemic, EAP instructors were treated as expendable, experiencing contract cancellation even after significant expenditures of time and money (for example, for equipment to enable remote teaching). 
● EAP instructors are dependent on student evaluations and their own willingness to complete unpaid tasks—thereby engaging the use of “magic time”—to keep their precarious positions; they are not fired, but rather not rehired. 
● EAP instructors spend an inordinate amount of time applying and reapplying for the same positions, often 3–4 times per year, and are subjected to unrelated interview processes (e.g., proving they are able to use specific remote teaching applications), leading to instructor disengagement and departure, seen as acts of defiance and self-worth. 
Things to consider
 
● TESOL professionals must be aware of how contract EAP positions can relate to neoliberalism and academic capitalism, with international students being charged higher tuition fees than their domestic counterparts for less. 
● Reducing EAP instructors to commensurable commodities replaces the teacher-student relationship with a service-provider-consumer relationship, and de-professionalizes EAP instructors who are subject to constant student evaluation processes to maintain their employment. 
● Our research did not specifically address how instructor precarity and working conditions impact teaching or the learning conditions for students; however, this would be an important avenue for further investigation. 
● Teaching English as a second language professional organizations should establish not only standards for instructors, but also employer standards for workload and appropriate pay. 