
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Researchers and educators are interested in understanding how learners use and learn different languages in their daily lives. This poses a methodological challenge since existing research instruments are not well suited to collecting data outside of classroom or lab settings. This paper introduces the Lang-Track-App, a new research tool developed to address this issue. The app allows researchers to collect data from learners on the go following a procedure known as the experience sampling method where participants answer questions about what they are doing many times per day. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers developed a smartphone application called the Lang-Track-App. 
● The code for the app is available for free online so that other researchers can use it for their studies. 
● Researchers upload surveys via a website linked to the app and schedule when they want participants to answer them. 
● Research participants download the app on their phones. When it is time to answer a survey, they receive a push notification on their phone. They tap the notification to open and respond to the survey in the app. 
● The researchers who developed the app also used it in a study of language use among university students studying abroad. 
● The students answered a survey several times per day over three weeks in which they reported, for example, what activities they had just engaged in and what language(s), if any, they had used. 
What the researchers found
 
● Students in the sample study found the Lang-Track-App easy to use and responded quickly to most of the surveys that they were sent. This showed that participants successfully engaged with the Lang-Track-App even though it can feel repetitive to answer the same survey many times per day. 
● The Lang-Track-App gave the researchers a very detailed picture of the students’ everyday language use. 
● This included information about when, where, and with whom the students used their native language, English, or the language of the country in which they were studying abroad. 
● Some students’ language use changed considerably over the course of the period. The rich data allowed the researchers to explore possible causes (e.g., the impact of COVID-19-related lockdowns). 
Things to consider
 
● The Lang-Track-App can be used to study language use and many other topics related to language learning such as motivation, engagement, foreign language enjoyment and anxiety, etc. 
● There are many ways of analyzing data from Lang-Track-App studies, from simpler descriptive approaches to complex statistical analyses, allowing researchers to explore many different research questions. 