
What this research was about and why it is important 
 It is useful for instructors to know what sounds will be difficult for beginning learners of a language, but it is not always obvious which ones will be hard to distinguish. Current methods that researchers use to predict which non-native sounds are difficult can be hard for participants to understand, can take a long time to complete, and cannot be used for all types of sounds. Thus, this study examined whether a different type of activity – a free classification task – is a viable alternative. In a free classification task, participants click on sound files and freely group them according to which ones they think sound similar. In experiments looking at sounds in German and Finnish, we found that the more often English-speaking participants grouped sounds together, the harder these sounds were for them to tell apart in a different perception activity. Free classification also provided insights into what acoustic dimensions are important for listeners. These findings offer evidence for the utility of a free classification task for examining non-native speech perception. 
What the researchers did
 
● 31 native English speakers completed a free classification task and an oddity task examining their perception of German vowels (e.g., skikk vs. skekk) 
● 26 native English speakers completed a free classification task and an oddity task examining their perception of Finnish consonant and vowel length (e.g., pata vs. paatta) 
● In the free classification task, participants were presented with a PowerPoint slide that had numbered sound files on the side and a grid in the middle. They had to listen to the sound files and move the sound files onto the grid to make groups of words that they thought sounded similar. 
● In the oddity task, participants were presented with a screen with three robots in a row and an X at the end. They heard three words in a row, such as patta-paata-patta in the Finnish experiment, and they had to pick which robot said something different (the odd one out) or click on the X if they all said the same word. 
What the researchers found
 
● How often sounds were grouped together in the free classification task predicted how difficult they were to tell apart in the oddity task: the more often two sounds were grouped together, the harder they were to distinguish. 
● When free classification results were analyzed with multi-dimensional scaling (which makes a visual representation of how different the sounds are) and then compared to acoustic properties of the sounds, we found what characteristics English speakers paid attention to: o For German vowels, participants paid attention to lip rounding, tongue height, and short vs. long. o For Finnish length, participants paid attention to whether the vowels (but not consonants) were short or long. 
Things to consider
 
● This study shows that free classification tasks are a good predictor of how difficult it will be to distinguish various non-native sounds. 
● Free classification tasks, when compared to acoustic data, can reveal what characteristics listeners pay attention to in the sounds being studied. 
● Free classification tasks have several advantages over other types of perception tasks: o Free classification tasks don’t require participants to use labels (e.g., keywords that stand for certain sounds; descriptions of sounds; phonetic symbols), which may be hard for participants to understand. o Free classification tasks can be used to examine types of sound distinctions that don’t exist in the listeners’ first language. For example, English speakers could do the Finnish free classification task even though English doesn’t distinguish words by differences in only consonant length. o Free classification tasks are faster to complete than other tasks such a similarity judgment task, which requires participants to listen to and rate the similarity of all possible pairings of the sounds being studied. 