
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Peer-tutoring programmes in different organizational variations have been established in many tertiary institutions (e.g. universities and post-18 colleges) to complement classroom teaching for the benefit of individualized assistance to students in need of support for their academic studies. These include same-age peer-tutoring, cross-age peer-tutoring or cross-section peer-tutoring (e.g. university students to secondary school students). However, not all peer tutoring sessions are successful. In the context of L2 academic writing, this study investigates the tensions in the setting of tutoring as the L2 tutors negotiated around offering feedback to their L2 tutees. These tensions might include discrepant expectations, conflicting beliefs about writing, competing expertise and negotiation of identity, (dis)respect and (mis)trust, personality and strategic communication, and tension between efficient practice and affective needs. This study contributes to knowledge by elucidating underlying mechanisms of (un)successful peer tutoring in L2 writing and by offering a preliminary framework on the social dynamics on the peer tutoring site. What the researcher did 
● Student tutors were required to reflect critically on their tutoring practices. 
● 42 self-reflections focusing on the experiences of successful and unsuccessful tutoring sessions over 3 semesters were collected. 
● Questions included; describing sucessful and unsucessful encounters and providing reasons for their success (or lack of) and asking tutors to comment on their tutoring approach over the semester. 
● The tutors’ responses were analysed at paragraph level to determine common themes and reasons for (un)sucessful peer tutorials. What the researcher found 
● Peer tutoring in L2 writing is a collaborative and cooperative enterprise that is jointly owned and controlled by both the tutor and tutee. 
● Success depends on willing negotiations and satisfactory diffusions of a range of tensions that require 4 C’s: cooperation, collaboration and co-construction and mutual contentment. 
● Tutees who needed help most were often more interested in just completing the writing task and getting a good grade than real learning. 
● One example of tension was differing beliefs about writing, such as, the tutor using simple language and the tutee prefering to use “fancy”, or more complex words. 
Things to consider
 
● This study has theoretical and pedagogical implications for the design of, and training for, similar peer tutoring programmes in higher education. 
● Fostering mutual respect between tutors and tutees in peer tutor programs is very important from the outset. 
● To be successful the following must be considered: 1) negotiation of the tutoring plan in line with the tutee's expectations, 2) rapport between the tutor and tutee 3) successful negotiation and dissolving of the tensions between the tutor and tutee. How to cite this summary: Li, C. (2023). Tutor reflections on peer tutoring in second language writing in higher education. OASIS Summary of Li (2023) in System. https://oasis-database.org. This summary has a CC BY-NC-SA license.       