
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Growing interest in teaching abroad programs has produced a surge of research on international language teaching. However, there are relatively few studies on the teaching abroad experiences of native English-speaking teachers of color regarding their racial identity. To fill this gap, this study explored how three non-White novice native English-speaking teachers understood their racial and teacher identities during their teaching abroad in South Korea. With a specific focus on their racial identity, how they make sense of their teaching and living experiences was examined in diverse contexts of their social interactions. The participants’ narratives from interviews were analyzed. The findings show that although their racial identity has a negative impact on their linguistic and professional identities that are denied by Korean society, the teachers utilized their own strategies for constructing a sense of belonging to the local and professional community. The findings provide evidence of the importance of a holistic, situated understanding of racial identity construction of non-White native English teachers by urging further discussion of racism in the global ELT profession. 
What the researchers did
 
● We used a case study approach to examine the narratives of three novice native English-speaking teachers of color from North America (2 Black, 1 Asian teachers). 
● We interviewed the participants multiple times before, during, and after their teaching abroad in Korea. 
● The collected data were analyzed through narrative inquiry to investigate the participants’ sense-making of their teaching and living experiences in personal and professional settings. 
● The specific analytical focus was how the teachers (re)construct and understand their racial and teacher identities during teaching abroad in Korea. 
What the researchers found
 
● Teaching abroad experiences changed the teachers’ understandings and attitudes about Korea. In particular, their racial, linguistic, and professional identities were denied and othered by their Korean colleagues at workplaces, local communities, and Korean society. 
● The teachers were often perceived as ‘illegitimate’ or ‘unauthorized’ speakers of Korean, which happened more overtly in the company of their Asian friends. 
● The teachers’ qualifications and legitimacy were also questioned and challenged due to their appearances and teaching experiences perceived as irrelevant or unprofessional. 
● The two Black teachers received more severe racist practices and challenges to their Korean proficiency. The Asian teacher, Joanne, easily blended into Korean society but was forced to practice an imagined Korean language ability and was often perceived as a delegitimatized native English-speaking teacher. 
● All the teachers employed various strategies to overcome racial discrimination in different social contexts and actively practiced a sense of community regarding their specific interests. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings indicated that teaching abroad should be an opportunity for language teachers to develop a critical understanding of social, economic, cultural, linguistic, and racial/ethnic power relations in English education. 
● We challenge the common perception of teaching abroad in previous studies as a temporary program or a fleeting professional training that offers momentary working and exciting living abroad experiences to college graduates. 
● We argue for the need for institutional and systematic support for expatriate language teachers by local administrators and government officers e.g., in-service training, more inclusive recruitment policies that embrace teachers from diverse racial/ethnic, linguistic, and educational backgrounds). 
● The findings of this study can be expanded to different teaching abroad contexts. 