
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Digital storytelling (DST) employs digital media to narrate a story that surrounds a particular topic and presents a specific viewpoint. While it has been shown to benefit second language (L2) learning in many ways, its influence on L2 speaking proficiency, willingness to communicate in English, and/or group cohesion has received relatively little attention. To address this research gap, I invited English as a Foreign Language (EFL) college learners to develop two digital stories in the course of an academic semester and evaluated how this experience affected their English speaking proficiency, willingness to communicate in English, and group cohesion. The findings of this study showed that digital storytelling indeed increased English speaking proficiency and group cohesion but not willingness to communicate in English. What the researcher did 
● Two intact classes of Taiwanese college students were assigned as either the digital storytelling group or the comparison group. At the beginning of the semester, they all took an English proficiency test and answered the willingness to communicate in English scale and the group cohesion scale 
● Over the course of the semester, the digital storytelling group completed two digital storytelling tasks. 
● For each digital storytelling task, the digital storytelling group, working in teams of three members, (1) located information, (2) generated the story script, (3) obtained visual and aural support, (4) rehearsed and recorded the oral reading, (5) combined the visual and aural support with the audio recording to create the digital story, and (6) played the digital story and then told the story again with the muted digital story in class. 
● During the weeks when the digital storytelling group presented digital stories, the comparison group watched and discussed movies and composed a reflective report in English. 
● At the end of the semester, the two groups took another version of the English proficiency test and answered the willingness to communicate in English scale and the group cohesion scale again. Fifteen digital storytelling students voluntarily attended individual semi-structured interviews. 
● I compared the speaking performance and scale responses of the two groups and analyzed the interviews to examine whether digital storytelling did affect English speaking proficiency, willingness to communicate in English, and group cohesion. 
What the researchers found
 
● Digital storytelling tasks increased English speaking proficiency. 
● Digital storytelling tasks did not increase willingness to communicate in English. 
● Digital storytelling tasks increased group cohesion. 
● Students reported needing more initial guidance on how to develop their stories. 
Things to consider
 
● Digital storytelling offers opportunities for additional oral practices and rehearsals and thus benefits L2 speaking development. 
● Although the statistical finding suggested otherwise, most interviewed students believe that they are more willing to speak up in English after the digital storytelling assignment, even with imperfect sentences. 
● Digital storytelling provides students with more chances to interact with each other outside of class and as such helps them develop a stronger peer bond. 
● L2 practitioners giving this digital storytelling assignment are advised to supply students with more guidance in the early stages, such as holding consultation sessions to offer feedback on the outline of their scripts. 