
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Many teachers struggle to improve their language and literacy instruction for students who are designated as English language learners (ELLs) because of challenges within their schools and their own beliefs and practices. This study explores ways in which working with an instructional coach can help dual language bilingual education (DLBE) and general education elementary teachers change their thinking and actions. The type of coaching used in this study empowers and emboldens teachers to become agents of change rather than enforcing a particular curriculum. The participants in this study are 12 DLBE and general education elementary school teachers in the U.S. state of Indiana who participated in a 12-18 month professional development (PD) program. Teachers took five ELL licensure courses over 1 school year, and DLBE teachers took two additional courses on bilingual education the following fall. The teachers met with an experienced instructional coach four times during the school year. DLBE teachers met with the coach two additional times the following fall. The coach observed each teacher before each meeting using a rubric to evaluate the quality of instruction and the classroom environment. She then met with each teacher either individually or in pairs to talk about their instruction and other issues the teachers wanted to discuss. She audio-recorded those meetings, wrote coach-teacher reflection summaries of each session, and wrote summaries following each coaching session cycle. The coach also interviewed each teacher one year after completing the ELL licensure program. Results show that teachers exhibited meaningful shifts in their beliefs and teaching practices for ELLs during their coaching experience, but that the processes of sharing and internalizing those changes can take many years. 
What the researchers did
 
● We conducted a multi-site qualitative case study with 12 elementary school teachers (7 DLBE and 5 general education) in 5 school districts and 6 schools across Indiana during the 2018-2019 school year, and in Fall 2019. 
● We collected 61 coaching observation rubrics, 53 coaching session transcriptions, 61 coach-teacher reflection summaries, 6 coach cycle summaries, and 11 post-program interview transcripts. 
● We analyzed the coaching observation rubrics to determine if teachers’ scores improved over time. 
● Based on the Vygotsky Space theoretical framework, we coded the qualitative data with Nvivo Pro 12 for instances of teachers expressing interest in the coach’s suggestions (appropriation), trying out suggestions (transformation), sharing ideas with colleagues (publication), and others trying out the teachers’ new ideas (conventionalization). 
What the researchers found
 
● Teachers’ scores on the coaching observation rubrics showed a pattern of improved instruction over time. 
● Teachers and coaches discussed a range of topics. The coach tailored the sessions to teachers’ individual needs. 
● Teachers appropriated many of the coach’s suggestions which led to positive transformations in their instruction. 
● The most common areas of transformation include beliefs about language and literacy and improved instructional practices such as greater attention to students’ language development, increased student interaction, more use of effective instructional strategies, and greater advocacy for students. 
● Teachers felt that institutional barriers sometimes made it challenging to share their transformed ideas (publication). 
● Reaching the publication and conventionalization stages usually took longer than one year. 
● We identified two additional phases in the cycle: pre-publication, where teachers expressed desires to share new ideas, and scale up, where teachers shared new ideas with people outside their immediate school contexts. 
Things to consider
 
● Teachers were able to consider and try out new ideas during the coaching process, but they sometimes get “stuck” before sharing with others, often because of institutional barriers. Coaching and professional development should empower teachers to share their new ideas. 
● It helps when teachers work together to build collective voices and advocate for change in their schools. 
● Effective coaching requires careful thought about both the content of the coaching and the process used. In our study, the coach focused on English language development as the content of the sessions and she used a process of observation, discussion, and reflection to help teachers take up this content. 