
What this research was about and why it is important 
  This research analyses the language of a collection of children’s books about the Canary Islands, a peripheral region of Spain. Concretely, it explores how the linguistic variety of the Canary Islands is represented, how the relationship between varieties of a same language and cultural and national identity is established, and the possible consequences of the representation form of a local culture for the intended audience, namely Canarian children. The sociolinguistic setting is the particular status of Canarian Spanish, a regional variety different from the national standard, the so called European Spanish. The analysis of lexical and morphological strategies to represent the Canarian variety shows the underlying power relations between linguistic varieties, i.e. the centre and the periphery, and allows us to address the possible consequences that can be drawn for Canarian children in the creation of their own national identity. What the researcher did 
● The language of a collection of children’s books about the Canary Island was analysed. 
● The strategies to represent the Canarian variety were studied: what lexicon was used, how the books referred to cultural or unique realities on the Canary Islands, and which other linguistic resources were employed. 
● The frequency and the form of Canarian Spanish lexicon and morphology were analysed. For example, it showed how and when the author of the book decides to explain the lexicon of Canarian Spanish. 
● Based on this analysis, we discussed the interpretations and possible consequences for the readers, in this case, the children of the Canary Islands. What the researcher found 
● Some strategies for representing Canarian culture were foreign or unusual to children’s literature such as footnotes and others were artificial —such as the use of practically unknown or very unusual indigenous proper names—, or unnatural considering the everyday realities being described. 
● The representation form of the Canarian Spanish showed the outsider perspective from which the collection is written, a national and centric perspective. 
● All aspects concerning the Canary Islands —and only these aspects— were explained, although the intended audience is Canarian children. 
● All these strategies can have negative effects on Canarian children and hinder a culturally authentic perspective, that is, a ‘view from within’. 
● The collection is a good example of a fallacious representation of cultural diversity and reveals the underlying ideology of hegemony of a variety. 
Things to consider
 
● It should be discussed what consequences may follow from these representation forms on the creation of national identity in children. 
● The chosen representation form of a local culture can contribute to the process of alienation from one’s own culture. 
● We encounter the problem of the explicitness of the “other’s” culture while leaving unmarked the Eurocentric culture underlying most children’s literature. 
● All this invites us to reflect on how knowledge should be transmitted about a local culture subject to the general pressures of a globalised world and the particular tensions of being immersed within a traditionally hegemonic culture.  