
What this research was about and why it is important 
 An enduring puzzle in language teacher education is how to challenge and change teacher beliefs and practices in order to achieve better learning outcomes. This paper focused on the experiences of novice primary English teachers in Malaysia and the ways in which they made sense of their pre-service teacher education when faced with the realities of the classroom. A complicating dimension was that around half of their teacher education had been delivered abroad. How, then, would the teachers make sense of this ‘foreign’ input in their Malaysian classrooms? To investigate this question, narrative inquiry was used. The study found that multiple layers of both context and community were found to influence the teachers, and that the study abroad experience features both in positive and negative ways. 
What the researchers did
 
● The focal participants in this study were two female primary teachers of English who were beginning their fourth year of teaching. The researcher spent around one week with each teacher. The main source of data was interviews. These were supplemented by detailed classroom observation notes, classroom artefacts, and field journal reflections. 
● Once the interviews were transcribed, they were coded for themes. 
● Each participant’s interview was then written up as a powerful, personal story from which common themes or categories emerged. 
What the researchers found
 
● The stories drew attention to aspects of these novice teachers’ development, including to the emotions experienced at different times. 
● In line with models of language teacher cognition, the stories also identified many different influences on their pedagogical decision-making such as their apprenticeship of observation, their professional training both in Malaysia and New Zealand, and input from significant others. 
● The first of the three main themes to emerge concerned the importance of context. Context was found to operate in three main ways. 
● The second main theme was the importance of community. The teachers benefitted from two different mentoring communities, and also from their peers. Two of these communities were often constituted virtually. 
● The final main theme concerned conflict, particularly the conflict that could arise when a teacher applied ideas learned abroad in the Malaysian school and classroom context. 
Things to consider
 
● The findings from this study are inevitably local and particular. Readers will therefore need to make their own decisions about the relevance of the findings to their circumstances. 
● Teacher education in general, and study abroad in particular, has the potential to create sites of conflict for novice teachers. 
● How to mitigate potential negative impact should be a consideration when including study abroad in language teacher education programmes. 