
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In recent decades, an extensive body of empirical research has focused on understanding language learning motivation. However, previous studies have overwhelmingly centered on second and foreign language learner populations, with little attention directed towards heritage language (HL) learners. As early bilingual speakers of a minoritized language, HL learners have unique linguistic and learning experiences, and their motivational profiles in instructed contexts can differ from those associated with second and foreign language learner. Thus, this study sought to explore connections among a set of under-researched motivational variables in the context of Spanish heritage bilingualism in the US. To this end, researchers analyzed motivational data using psychological network modeling, a statistical procedure that characterizes relationships between variables within a complex system. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 209 adult Spanish HL learners enrolled in Spanish courses across various US universities who completed an online questionnaire. 
● The questionnaire included scales to assess ten focal motivational variables: the Ideal HL Self, the Ought-to HL Self, Family Influence, Intended Effort, Mastery Goal Orientation, Performance Goal Orientation, HL Enjoyment, HL Anxiety, Classroom Environment, and Critical Language Awareness. 
● Data were analyzed using psychological network modeling to answer the following questions: (a) What is the psychological network structure associated with Spanish HL learners’ motivational profile? (b) What are the most central variables in the psychological network structure? and (c) How stable is the psychological network structure? 
What the researchers found
 
● The estimated psychological network model showed a majority of positive connections among nodes. Intended Effort had strong positive links to Ideal HL Self and HL Enjoyment, and moderate connections with Mastery Goal Orientation and Ought-to HL Self. The Ideal HL Self was directly connected with Mastery Goal Orientation but was independent of Performance Goal Orientation, while the opposite was true for the Ought-to HL Self. 
● Ought-to HL Self and Intended Effort showed the highest strength centrality, indicating that they have the most dense connections with other nodes in the network, whereas Intended Effort and the Ideal HL Self showed the highest closeness centrality, suggesting that a lot of information flows through them in the network. In contrast, Critical Language Awareness, HL Anxiety, and Family Influence featured the lowest centrality overall, revealing that these nodes are less easily affected by changes in other nodes and play a more peripheral role in the network. 
● The network model was relatively stable, particularly with regards to strength centrality and the order of network connections. Some estimates were more prone to sampling variation and should be interpreted more cautiously. 
Things to consider
 
● Results highlight the importance of encouraging the construction of vibrant future HL self representations and promoting positive visions for communicating in the minority language. Relatedly, instructors should strive to build supportive classroom atmospheres that encourage effort and where HL learners’ mastery goal orientations are promoted over performance orientations that capitalize on peer comparisons. Attention should be drawn to expanding HL learners’ critical bilingual competence and achieving a sense of success in linguistic attainment that is based on internalized (as opposed to normative) standards that align with individual learners’ image of the ideal HL self. 
● Psychological network modeling allows researchers to statistically estimate motivational phenomena as complex systems, in consonance with dominant theoretical conceptualizations in the field. Its utility to help us understand system-level relationships promises to provide valuable insights that can complement those obtained from more established statistical procedures. 