
What this research was about and why it is important 
 The World Languages Professional Life Survey (survey) examined how familiarity with the World-Readiness Standards for Language Learning (Standards) and the NCSSFL/ACTFL Can-Do Statements (Statements) might impact primary school, secondary school, and university collaboration. The purposes of the survey were to discover world languages teachers’ formal training throughout their professional lives, to uncover world languages teachers’ core beliefs about their pedagogical objectives, and to analyze possible connections between training, beliefs, and familiarity with the Standards and the Statements. Findings indicated that the field as a whole still needs to increase their understanding of high-leverage teaching practices based on the Standards and the Statements. 
What the researchers did
 
● The survey was developed to uncover world languages teachers’ formal academic preparation, their personal beliefs about teaching methods, and the connections between the two. 
● The research protocol included eight contextual questions to determine demographic and professional categories of 598 participants. 
● The focal point of the survey was two Likert-scale questions that ascertained participants’ perceptions of the Standards and Statements. 
What the researchers found
 
● The survey indicated that the field can still enhance familiarity with the Standards and the Statements. 
● In each of the categories of the survey, the data suggest that with some simple tweaks, world languages professionals may be able to change the profession’s mindset which can lead to more effective incorporation of high-leverage teaching practices. 
Things to consider
 
● The authors urge world languages teachers and teacher educators to consider how simple world languages curriculum 
● revisions could promote enhanced familiarity with the Standards and the Statements. Implementation of such changes could also encourage world languages educators to integrate the Standards or the Statements into their own continual professional development and into the classes they teach. 
● Simple shifts could encourage specific discussions about, and references to, the Standards or the Statements in every course. 
● Lastly, the authors encourage world languages teachers to use terminology from the Standards for both formative and summative assessments. 