
What this research was about and why it is important 
 English Medium Instruction (EMI) has been gaining popularity over the past decades. In Taiwan EMI is still developing and the direction of the growth is still not clear. The current study investigated the implementation of EMI at a university in Taiwan and in particular misalignments between top-down policies and institutional and classroom implementations thereof. The study found misalignments at several levels: (1) the inconsistencies of students’ English proficiency as a prerequisite for enrollment, (2) inconsistencies in defining EMI, and (3) instructors perceived conflicting learning needs and interests of students. EMI could be considered a problem, a right or a resource by different stakeholders. These conflicting interests resulted in a gap between policies and practices. 
What the researchers did
 
● The study investigated the implementation of EMI at a university in Taiwan. 
● Three instructors were recruited as participants because of their senior experiences of teaching EMI courses (30, 12, and 8 years respectively) and their diverse ethnic backgrounds (Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Austria). The study looked at the perceptions of three EMI teachers’ beliefs and practices. 
What the researchers found
 
● The top-down approach of EMI policies did not align with the realities of university classroom settings. o The macro-level (governmental) misalignment focused on the lack of consensus of students’ English proficiency as a prerequisite for enrollment. o The meso-level (institutional) misalignment addressed the issue of the blurry definition of EMI. o The micro-level (instructors) misalignment revealed perceived conflicting interests and various learning needs between domestic students and international students. 
● EMI was viewed as problem, a right or a resource by different stakeholders. The language-as-resource orientation presented EMI as social capital to promote students’ future careers through learning and communicating in English. The language-as-right orientation suggested that students should be given the right to be educated in their native language. The language-as-problem orientation occurred in an EMI program when both instructors and students were non-native English speakers. Such a deficit view assumed that EMI would be successful when both instructors and students had demonstrated a designated level of English proficiency. 
Things to consider
 
● A top-down governmental policy with language-as-resource orientation may not be the most effective was to way to implement EMI programs. Language-as-right orientation to promote EMI seemed to be agreed on by all stakeholders and policy makers at the macro, meso, and micro levels. 
● Suggestions included: (1) Students’ English proficiency should not be the measurement of EMI effectiveness, nor should it be the goal for promoting bilingual education. (2) Universities should specify their EMI courses and define their ideal practices. (3) Addressing the different learning needs of domestic and international students in an EMI classroom is necessary. 