
What this research was about and why it is important 
  There are different ideas about the best way to teach a new language. Many teachers force students to listen and speak only in the language the teachers want students to learn. However, allowing students to use words and phrases from any language they like creates a more positive language learning environment that leads to successful learning of the new language. Planning to use both languages in lessons and inviting students to use any language they like is called translanguaging, and its use began in 1994 in Wales. Usually, teachers who want to create translanguaging classrooms are bilingual teachers, and they speak both languages with their students. In this study, however, the teachers knew only English, while their students, aged 3-4 years old spoke either Chinese or English. We found that these teachers used translanguaging in many ways to encourage young children to speak Chinese and/or English freely in the classrooms. This study provides pedagogical guidelines that balance the goals of learning a new language and developing children’s native language through strategic use of three translanguaging components. 
What the researchers did
 
● Four English teachers were observed while teaching children aged 3 or 4 years in their classrooms in China. Each classroom held about 15 children. Usually, each classroom also had a Chinese-speaking adult helping, but the observations were done when no Chinese teacher assistants were present. 
● Researchers collected and analyzed 40 hours of videotaped interactions and conducted 10 interviews with the teachers to understand their teaching strategies and their beliefs about translanguaging. 
● Teachers were asked open-ended questions, such as, “I saw you [doing x] in the class; can you talk about why you did that?” The researchers then studied their responses. 
What the researchers found
 The English teachers seemed to use languaging activities for 3 purposes: translanguaging assistance, translanguaging assessment, and translanguaging showcases. Translanguaging assistance happened when children were learning English by using Chinese. Translanguaging assessment happened when teachers evaluated children’s English skills while the children were partly using Chinese. Translanguaging showcases happened when children used all their languages, speaking in creative ways, and their bilingualism was displayed and enjoyed by the class. Some of the strategies these teachers used were: 
● asking other children to translate so they could help each other, 
● having children share information with a partner 
● asking children to draw pictures and explain their pictures as an informal assessment 
● positioning children as the teacher by asking children to help the teacher learn Chinese words 
● putting Chinese words the teacher was learning from the children on the classroom wall 
● paying very close attention to the children, trying to figure out what they might be trying to say by listening, asking questions, and watching children’s gestures and body language. 
● let the children take center stage and lead the conversations. 
Things to consider
 
● Based on this study, we think that being able to switch back and forth between languages may be a good way for children to learn a new language while still continuing to develop their first language. 
● Even though the teachers did not speak Chinese, they managed to balance teaching English while encouraging the children’s Chinese development. Allowing the children to use any language still led to English learning. 
● This study does not show that all teachers can create translanguaging classrooms automatically; it shows that it may be possible for teachers to do so, if they use strategies that encourage children to use any language they like. 
● It may be possible to create translanguaging classrooms in places where children speak a variety of languages, but it would be good to see evidence of this happening. 