
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Despite their importance in second/foreign language (L2) learning and teaching, collocations are difficult for L2 learners. For that reason, recent studies have investigated different modes of input in search of the optimal input for collocation learning. Several studies have shown the positive effects of reading-while-listening and reading with textual input enhancement in the form of underlining on collocation learning. However, it is unknown whether integrating textual input enhancement into reading-while-listening can have a superior effect on collocation learning compared with reading-while-listening and reading with textual input enhancement. The present study examined collocation learning in three modes of reading: reading-while-listening, reading with textual input enhancement in the form of underlining, and reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement. Also, it investigated predictors of learning gains. In line with previous research, the study found an effect of mode of reading on collocation learning. Learners learned more collocations in reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement and reading with textual input enhancement than in reading-while-listening. No difference was found between reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement and reading with textual input enhancement. Besides, learners’ vocabulary knowledge affected their collocation learning from reading. Collocations with literal translations in Vietnamese were also better learned than collocations without Vietnamese equivalents. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 118 Vietnamese pre-intermediate EFL learners majoring in business and economics. 
● Participants were divided into two groups. Over nine weeks, participants in the first group read three graded readers with 32 target collocations (16 verb-noun and 16 adjective-noun) in three different reading modes in different orders: reading-while-listening, reading with textual input enhancement, and reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement. Participants in the second group only took collocation tests without reading the graded readers. 
● To assess learning gains, participants completed a collocation test two times: one week before they read the graded readers and one week after they had read the graded readers. Participants had to translate the target collocations from Vietnamese into English. 
What the researchers found
 
● While participants exposed to the graded readers showed gains of collocation knowledge, those who did not read the books showed no improvement of their collocational knowledge. 
● Reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement and reading with textual input enhancement led to more collocation learning than reading-while-listening. 
● Reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement and reading with textually input enhancement were equally effective for collocation learning. 
● Learners had better comprehension in reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement than in reading-while-listening and reading with textual input enhancement. 
● Participants with larger vocabularies learned more collocations than participants with smaller vocabularies. 
● Collocations that could be literally translated from Vietnamese into English were better learned than collocations without Vietnamese equivalents. 
Things to consider
 
● The present study found that reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement and reading with textual input enhancement were more effective for learning collocations than reading-while-listening. 
● Learners had the best comprehension in reading-while-listening plus textual input enhancement. 
● The results were applicable for collocations that consisted of highly frequent words. 
● The study only examined the learning of the form of collocations. 
● The study did not investigate the effect of familiarity with component words of collocations on collocation learning. 