
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Research has shown that meditation exercises can improve learning. However, can meditation also improve the learning of a foreign language? This study investigated this research gap by implementing meditation exercises in a foreign language setting (German). Two classes meditated with two different meditation methods: The count-to-ten method and the guided meditation approach, whereas a third class served as a non-meditating comparison class. The exercises were implemented for a period of one year and data were collected on students’ academic achievement, measures of mindfulness, and evaluations of the meditation exercises. Results revealed that classes that did the meditation exercises showed marked signs of academic achievement and increased awareness relative to the class that did not meditate. There were also differences between the two meditation methods in terms of distinct aspects of mindfulness. Furthermore, the students evaluated their experience with the meditation exercises very positively. What the researcher did 
● Participants were 75 Japanese university students of German as a foreign language, aged between 18-23. In the beginning of the study they were absolute beginners of German and after the study period of two semesters they reached an advanced beginner level. 
● The participants were divided into three classes, but with the same teacher and textbook. Two classes meditated every time (two times a week) at the start of the lesson. One class did a guided meditation. They listened to a 3-minute audio recording with Japanese meditation instructions. The second class did a counting breath meditation: The students counted from 10 until 1 in their head and concentrated on their breath. The third class was the comparison class and had no meditation exercises. 
● To test if the meditation exercises had an effect on the subjects’ language learning, 6 tests (e.g. grammar, vocabulary, listening) were used throughout the year. To further measure the mindfulness level of the students and the effect of the meditation exercises, a questionnaire was used at the beginning and of the end of the first semester. To explore students’ perceptions of the meditative practices, a third questionnaire was used. What the researcher found For the effect on language learning 
● All students made progress with their language learning. However, the data showed that the two meditating classes had significantly better results over the period of one year than the class who did not meditate. 
● A significant difference between the two different methods of meditation was not found. For the mindfulness level 
● The meditation exercises influenced the mindfulness level. Compared to the class that did not meditate, the two meditation classes reported higher overall mindfulness as well as higher levels for all sub-categories. 
● Between the two classes, it seems that guided meditation had different effects than the count-to-ten method, for example there was a significant difference in how the two classes evaluated overall mindfulness. The class which used guided meditation reported higher levels in observation and awareness. For the perception of the meditation exercises 
● The exercises were perceived very positively in both meditation classes. 
● The counting class rated their exercises as slightly more pleasing and also helpful for focus than the guided meditation class did. However, no other significant differences were found between the two methods. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, meditation was shown to benefit language learning and boost students’ mindfulness level. 
● The first few minutes of a lesson offer the teacher a rich opportunity to prepare their students for learning. The practices were designed for easy implementation in the classroom. Also, the tight time frame of current university curricula has been considered. 
● For the counting method, no equipment is needed and can be implemented very easily. 
● The guided meditation offers new opportunities for language learning, including vocabulary building focused listening. For advanced beginners, new vocabulary could be given with examples on the board. As meditation scripts are often repetitive in nature, this characteristic can be used for effective practice of target vocabulary and expressions as well.    