
What this research was about and why it is important 
 A key concern in second language (L2) research and pedagogy is how learner attention can be directed to linguistic forms. Research has shown that textual enhancement, that is the physical manipulation of certain aspects of the text to make them easily noticed, facilitates the noticing of targeted L2 features, leading to cognitive processes beneficial for L2 learning. However, very few studies on textual enhancement have had children as participants. This longitudinal study investigated the extent to which textual enhancement in model texts could have an effect on the development of third person possessive pronouns (his/her) among young English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners in the short and in the long run. The findings revealed that the group who had been exposed to textual enhancement for a prolonged period of time outperformed those who had only benefitted from this technique on a few occasions. In conclusion, textual enhancement seems to be a useful pedagogical tool to facilitate the children’s development of third person possessives. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 30 pairs of 11-12-year-old Spanish EFL learners with an elementary proficiency level. 
● The groups were engaged in two four-stage collaborative writing cycles of 3 weeks each separated by four months. 
● The participants found the enhanced or underlined possessive pronouns in a series of texts they received as models and later had to rewrite. 
● The learners were randomly assigned to a treatment group, who was only exposed to the underlined possessives during the two cycles; a long-term treatment group, who benefitted from this technique during the two writing cycles and the period in-between; and a control group, who was not exposed to the enhanced linguistic target. 
What the researchers found
 
● Textual enhancement succeeded in drawing the children’s attention to third person possessives and led to increased gains in the knowledge of the enhanced linguistic feature in the long run. 
● Continuous exposure is essential for teaching grammar without awareness. 
● We attribute this result to a combination of factors such as the typographical enhancement technique used (underlining), the nature of the target linguistic construction (possessive pronouns vs. other linguistic features), prior knowledge (the children already had some knowledge of the target feature), the age of participants (children are better able to learn implicitly than adults), the use of a longitudinal design and/or collaborative work. 
Things to consider
 
● Based on the current findings, it is recommended that EFL instructors make use of sustained implicit (without awareness) and explicit form-focused instruction, as it has proven effective in this particular context. This way, they can provide children with sufficient assistance to achieve the goals that may comprise more difficulty due to their own limitations. 
● Still, it seems necessary to continue exploring the effectiveness of this attention-drawing tool under different conditions and with other pedagogical interventions. 