
What this research was about and why it is important 
 In order to develop the reading skills of language learners, many teachers provide their students with books called “graded readers’. These books are specially written to avoid words that are not common in English. The theory behind this decision is that learners are less likely to know uncommon words. If a page of writing contains many words that the learners do not know, for example if over 5% are not known, then the learners’ reading speed is interrupted. When reading speed is interrupted by unknown words, it becomes more difficult for learners to understand what they are reading about. In second language reading research, proper nouns, which are the names of people and places, are usually presumed to be known by learners of English because they begin with capital letters, such as in London. Because of this presumption, proper nouns are sometimes not included in the 5% of words that learners might not know in graded readers. However, many proper nouns are very uncommon and might also interrupt learners’ reading speed in the same way that other words do. In this research, we investigated whether proper nouns interrupt reading speed in the same way that common nouns do. This research is important for two particular reasons. First, no other researchers have attempted to measure the effect of proper nouns before. Second, if proper nouns do interrupt learners’ reading, perhaps the percentage of proper nouns in graded readers should be considered when assigning graded readers to difficulty levels. 
What the researchers did
 
● Two self-paced reading experiments were conducted. Self-paced reading is a computer-based task. It involves participants reading sentences word-by-word. The participants control how fast the words appear by pressing a button on their keyboard. The time taken to read each word is recorded and analyzed. 
● In Experiment 1, a set of 30, two-syllable proper names were gathered from a set of 15 graded readers. The proper nouns were organized by how many times they occurred in the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA), which contains over one-billion word from newspapers, websites, and other sources. A set of 30, two-syllable common nouns with a comparable number of occurrences in COCA were also found. Participants read 60 sentences in the self-paced reading experiment, and each sentence contained either one target proper noun or one target common noun. In this experiment, none of the sentences were related to each other and they were presented in a random order. The aim was to compare how the learners read proper nouns and common nouns. 
● In Experiment 2, the participants read a chapter of the graded reader version of The Jungle Book in a self-paced reading experiment. Whereas all of the sentences were unrelated in Experiment 1, the sentences in Experiment 2 were related because they were part of the same chapter. Therefore, in this experiment we investigated how learners read proper nouns in a more natural reading situation than the unrelated sentences in Experiment 1. 
What the researchers found
 
● Experiment 1 revealed that the proper nouns interrupted the learners’ reading speed in a manner that was comparable to common nouns. However, common nouns that appeared less often in COCA produced a slightly stronger effect than the comparable proper nouns. 
● Experiment 2 revealed that the more times the participants read the proper nouns across the length of graded reader chapter, the weaker the effects of their interruption became. However, when there was a long gap between proper noun appearances in the chapter, the effect of some proper nouns’ interruption became slightly stronger again. 
Things to consider
 
● Graded reader publishers should consider taking the percentage of proper nouns into consideration when assigning the proficiency level of a book. This information could also be reported by the publishers somewhere in the book so that teachers and students are aware that the book might be more difficult to read. 
● The finding that the proper nouns’ interruption effects became stronger after a long gap requires further investigation. 
● These findings were discovered with Japanese university students, whose first language written characters do not use an equivalent of capitalization to mark proper nouns. This experiment should be replicated with speakers of first languages that are closer to English, such as Dutch or Spanish, to see if the same results occur.