
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Since the outbreak of Covid-19, online teaching has presented language teachers not only with challenges about how to enhance language communication in virtual settings, but also with possible tensions about their own professional identity, that is whether they can work as effective teachers who achieve pedagogical goals and care for students’ growth. Prior studies on teacher identity and agency have not touched upon the online setting as a new educational landscape. To address this gap, this study reported four university English teachers’ cases to explore how teachers deal with their identity tensions and how they enact their agency to resolve these tensions during online teaching. Findings reveal that individual teachers experienced varying degrees of identity tensions on the pedagogical and socio-affective dimensions, and their wide-ranging agentic actions distributed across pre-, in-, and/or after-class stages to maintain an identity, adopt a new identity, switch between identities, and/or redefine identities. 
What the researchers did
 
● A first-tier Chinese university which is well-known for its communicative language teaching tradition was selected as the research site where voluntary participants were recruited. 
● Among the 12 participants, four information-rich cases were reported in this study. They were selected due partly to their great individual variations in identity tensions and agentic actions, and partly to the different career stages they were in. They are (all pseudonyms): Cathy (an early-career lecturer, Ph.D.), Bill (a mid-career associate professor, Ph.D.), Daisy (a mid-career lecturer, M.A.), and Jenny (a late-career lecturer, M.A.). 
● Three rounds of individual interviews were conducted with the case teachers before, during, and after online teaching. 
● Data from the interviews were analyzed to understand how individuals deal with identity tensions with agency, as well as to explore the similarities and differences among their cases. 
What the researchers found
 
● Online teaching challenged the teachers to perform their long-held facilitator and care-giver identities. The identity tensions may derive from the pedagogical and socio-affective dimensions. 
● To deal with identity tensions, the case teachers’ agentic actions can be summarized as four resolutions: preserving their preferred identity as a facilitator, adopting new identities as a lecturer, switching between identities (facilitator and lecturer across different courses), and/or redefining identity as a care-giver to students. 
● Their agency was enacted differently, largely depending on their teacher belief, digital literacy, prior knowledge, and years of teaching, and being closely related to the course and students they taught. 
● The various agentic actions spread across pre-, in-, and after-class phases of online teaching. 
Things to consider
 
● The four resolutions of identity tensions indicate that agency can influence teacher identity in highly individualistic ways. How teacher agency is enacted is mediated by personal factors such as teacher belief, digital literacy, professional stages where teachers were in, and contextual factors such as course type and relationship with students. 
● The teachers’ agentic actions distributing across pre-, in-, and after-class phrases indicate that teacher agency needs to be considered on the temporal dimension rather than as a one-shot decision-making. 
● This study contributes to teacher identity research by specifying how agency plays a part in helping teachers reconcile identity tensions (i.e., the four kinds of identity resolutions). The different identity resolution options open floor for teachers to consider how they can reconsider identity tensions as opportunities for reflecting on and enhancing their agency. 
● This study has its limitations in solely relying on teacher interview data. Future research is suggested to draw on multiple sources of data, such as observational and documentary data, and from perspectives of different stakeholders, such as students, to gain a more holistic understanding of identity tensions and teacher agency. 