
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Competence is a concept that lies at the core of linguistics. Linguistic competence sought to account for the intuitions of idealized speaker–listeners in communities where language users’ repertoires are imagined as identical to one another, with a specific focus on shared grammatical structures. Based on the suggestion that this framing has failed to account for the heterogeneity of everyday language use, communicative competence sought to better describe the social norms of appropriateness that language users learn as part of their experiences of socialization in different community contexts. While this move toward a more social framing of language was typically celebrated as progress toward linguistic diversity, a closer look at the framing of communicative competence has revealed its reproduction of troublesome assumptions about race and language shaped by broader histories of European colonialism. It is important to grapple with the legacy of these colonial logics in the field of applied linguistics as part of efforts to develop alternative decolonial approaches to understanding language use across contexts. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers first situated the emergence of modern race within the context of European colonialism that equated whiteness with full humanity and racialization as a denial of this humanity. 
● They then brought specific attention to how language has been used as part of the dehumanization of racialized groups with a particular focus on the association of whiteness with normative linguistic homogeneity and racialization with deviant linguistic heterogeneity. 
● Finally, they used this theorization of race and language to analyze the emergence of the term communicative competence in the work of Dell Hymes in 1962. 
What the researchers found
 
● Dell Hymes first proposed the concept of communicative competence in a conference informed by the culture of poverty theory suggesting that low-income racialized communities had cultural and linguistic deficiencies preventing their social mobility. 
● The concept of verbal repertoire first proposed by John Gumperz that heavily informed Hymes’s theory presumed that low-income people and racialized communities had less fully developed communicative skills compared to affluent and white communities. 
● Hymes accepted this basic premise while shifting the focus from deficiency to difference. This shift failed to reject the assumption of deviant linguistic heterogeneity of racialized communities and, therefore, has continued to reproduce colonial logics. 
Things to consider
 
● The importance of rejecting universalizing theories such as communicative competence that have continued to normalize whiteness in favor of new theories that center the knowledge and meaning-making of racialized communities with the goal of challenging racial hierarchies. 