
What this research was about and why it is important 
 As English is very present outside the classroom in many European countries, previous studies in these contexts have shown that there are large differences between learners’ vocabulary knowledge, even within class groups. This study was set up to give teachers a tool to measure their learners’ prior vocabulary knowledge in listening throughout secondary school. The study resulted in an English vocabulary test for Dutch-speaking second language (L2) learners of English and a set of test items which can be used to develop a similar test in different contexts. What the researcher did 
● Possible test items were selected from an L2 prevalence list (such a list gives information on which percentage of L2 English speakers know a word). 
● The researcher tested the quality of a) the test items and b) the test as a whole with the intended test-takers (Dutch-speaking adolescents). 
● The researcher investigated which aspects influenced item difficulty: prevalence, frequency (how often a word occurs in a language), age of acquisition (when the word is learned) and similarity between the English word and the Dutch translation. 
● The researcher developed a test with 79 items which can be used throughout secondary school with Dutch-speaking L2 English learners. What the researcher found 
● The results show that the test is a good measure of vocabulary knowledge in listening. 
● Prevalence lists are a suitable starting point for item selection when developing a test that aims to measure prior knowledge. 
● Item difficulty was mainly predicted by L2 prevalence, age of acquisition and similarity between the Dutch and the English word but not by word frequency. 
Things to consider
 
● The researcher took into account the test’s purpose, the educational context, and the intended testees. 
● Norms were provided of which test scores can be expected at which age which makes it possible to interpret the test results. 
● In order to check the test’s validity, the participants did the newly developed test together with an existing vocabulary test. If we want to know more about the exact relationship between this test and the various language skills another study could be done to explicitly test this. 
● The test was designed for a specific target group. Future studies could look into the possibilities of using this test or an adapted version of the test (based on the large set of items) for other populations. 