
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Contrary to many people’s predictions, the concept of nation/national identity has returned to the forefront of the contemporary political scene. This article is part of a special issue of TESOL Quarterly focused on the theme of resurgent nationalism. Our starting point is the observation that coexistence and mutual respect within and across national borders and identities are becoming elusive goals, possibly requiring a more sustained level of affective and symbolic work in their achievement. Our setting is Canada and the unique personal and professional understandings of nation/nationalism we have experienced. We look at the concept of nation in critical and interpretive ways because we believe that many politicians across the world are now mobilizing and manipulating people’s feelings of anger and fear, often conflating ethnicity and nationality in divisive ways that make multiple identities and affiliations difficult and, at times, dangerous. We believe that responsible curricula must help prepare students to participate effectively as citizens through critical affective literacies (CAL). We report on our pedagogies in a specific English for Academic Purposes (EAP) setting through which we address the plurality of national identities and its implications for belonging and citizenship. 
What the researchers did
 
● We engaged in a duoethnographic inquiry of teaching national identity/ies and civic engagement in our credit-bearing EAP courses at York University located in Toronto – one of the most culturally and linguistically diverse cities in the world. 
● We chose duoethnography because it is a dialogical research methodology in which two or more researchers juxtapose their lived experiences to collaboratively explore a mutually-selected research topic. It requires openness, self-criticality, and respect for diversity. 
● We engaged in a series of dialogues in which we shared our experiences of teaching EAP, curricular justifications, and selected course assignments. 
What the researchers found
 
● Our duoethnographic inquiry revealed that resurgent nationalism has Canadian particularities within a globalized world that continue to shape EAP curriculum and classroom practices. 
● When EAP students’ experiences and perspectives are recognized and validated, confidence and a sense of belonging are also advanced. 
● Our teaching examples demonstrated the importance of CAL to expand the pedagogical repertoires of EAP teachers and students in a time of resurgent nationalism. 
● CAL practices can potentially counter hierarchies of belonging, in which newcomers are excluded or only heard on terms that affirm dominant national narratives. 
Things to consider
 
● Through our duoethnography and the dialogic and interrogative projects described in the article, we have shed light on the semiotic tensions inherent in the concept of the nation. 
● Moving forward, we hope that the EAP field continues to investigate how meanings of nation(s) and nationalism vary and evolve within and across social groups and timespaces.  
● A key understanding in such pursuit should be that the nation is not only imagined but also semiotically negotiated and materialized through emotions constitutive of the collective.  