
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Are there individual differences in adults’ ability to pick up language without awareness? If so, how can we assess such language learning aptitude? If you are a language learner or teacher, you might have had these questions before. Some researchers have proposed that one sound recognition test —LLAMA D v2— assesses aptitude for learning language without awareness, but it is not clear whether this test really assesses such aptitude. This study investigated whether the test would capture the aptitude as intended. The research participants were given different types of test instructions for the test, and the association between their test scores and their scores on an array of cognitive ability tests was examined. The results showed that, regardless of the type of test instructions, the test did not align with cognitive ability tests of learning without awareness, suggesting that the test in question might not work as an aptitude test for learning without awareness. This study also found an unexpected negative association between the test scores and scores on one test of learning without awareness, but this negative association was found only when the test instructions drew the participants’ focal attention to the learning material. This finding suggested a potential detrimental role of focal attention in learning without awareness, the mechanism of which has not yet been clear. 
What the researchers did
 
● One hundred nine English monolingual university students were recruited. 
● Based on random assignment, the research participants took the LLAMA D v2 test with one of three types of test instructions: 37 participants were instructed to memorize the learning material; 36 participants were instructed to just pay attention to the learning material; 36 participants were falsely informed that it would be just a sound check and were exposed to the learning material incidentally. 
● All the participants also took the following six tests: a test of sequence learning without awareness, a test of meaning activation without awareness, a test of memorization ability, a test of memory span, a test of inhibition ability, and a test of sound discrimination. 
What the researchers found
 
● Regardless of the type of test instructions, the LLAMA D scores were not positively associated with scores on either the test of sequence learning without awareness or the test of meaning activation without awareness. 
● On the contrary, the LLAMA D scores were negatively associated with scores on the test of sequence learning without awareness, but only with the type of test instructions that had the participants pay attention to the learning material. 
● Some of the tests in this study (LLAMA D, the test of sequence learning without awareness, and the test of sound discrimination) turned out to be not reliable in terms of the internal consistency of the tests. 
Things to consider
 
● The LLAMA D scores were not positively associated with scores on the tests of learning without awareness, regardless of the type of test instructions; therefore, one needs to be careful about considering LLAMA D v2 as a test of an ability to learn language without awareness.  
● The negative association between the LLAMA D scores and the test scores of sequence learning without awareness may be interpreted as focal attention being useful in LLAMA D, but working against learning in the test of learning without awareness; the ability to learn something without awareness may be viewed as the degree of lack of interference from focal attention. 
● The reliability of some of the tests was low and so the results of this study should be interpreted with caution. More work is needed to improve the quality of tests. 