
What this research was about and why it is important 
 There are large numbers of adults who never developed literacy in their childhood but who are now studying a second language such as English. However, very little is known about the specific learning characteristics of such students. This study sought to compare how these students performed in classroom activities under two conditions: either they had 10 minutes to prepare what they were going to say or they had no such planning time. We investigated planning time because previous studies have consistently shown that it helps learners to speak more fluently (e.g., with fewer corrections and pauses), with fewer grammatical mistakes, and more grammatical complexity, and because such findings have subsequently been influential in the design of teaching activities. Surprisingly, however, we found that planning time seemed to have almost no such effect for learners with low literacy. This suggests a need to reexamine other assumptions about such learners and the teaching practices that will be most beneficial for them. 
What the researchers did
 
● This study replicated the methods of an influential study by Foster and Skehan (1996). 
● The key difference was conducting the study with students with little or no literacy in their first language. 
● There were 45 adult students from a range of mainly former refugee backgrounds who each performed three speaking tasks in class over three consecutive weeks. 
● 21 students received 10 minutes planning time before the tasks; 24 received no planning time. 
● We analyzed recordings for fluency (e.g., hesitations), grammatical complexity, and grammatical errors. 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the results for those with or without planning time were indistinguishable. 
● This contrasts with previous studies involving students who were highly literate in their first language. 
● Unlike previous studies, those with planning time also tended to reduce the range of grammatical forms used. 
● One similarity to previous studies is that more complex tasks promoted the use of more complex language. 
Things to consider
 
● Were the results due to the cognitive effects of literacy, experience of schooling, or social variables? 
● Some students appeared impatient during the planning time, perhaps seeing it as a waste of time. 
● Since they had little experience of schooling, perhaps they had not been taught planning strategies. 
● Perhaps literacy helps one think abstractly about language (as other studies have suggested), and this helps in planning the grammatical form of utterances. 
● Future studies should distinguish between the effects of literacy and those of classroom experience. 
● There is a pressing need to explore other impacts of first language literacy and to develop more inclusive techniques in second language teaching. 