
What this research was about and why it is important 
 TESOL practitioners have recently started engaging in self-narratives, memoirs, autoethnographies, and critical storytelling to explore issues in English language education through their own stories, narratives, and analytical voices. Amongst these methodological choices, autoethnography has afforded practitioners the lens to address the relationship between ‘the self’ and ‘the cultures/discourses’ when narrating and analyzing their storied experience. In this paper, we present a collaborative autoethnography (CAE) in which we explore our experiences of identity tensions as transnational TESOL practitioners (TTPs). We address the following research question: How do we, TTPs, navigate and negotiate tensions as we construct our professional identities? Addressing our research question, we conceptually argued that tensions are inevitable in our identity work and found that border-crossing and in-betweenness characterized our identities as TTPs. We cross borders and carve out in-between spaces, identities, and voices for ourselves in our professional lives. Crossing borders, we make ourselves vulnerable to tensions that challenge our beliefs and priorities in our practice with exhausting emotional labor, but we experience those tensions variably. 
What the researchers did
 
● We started our collaboration through a dialogue session presentation at the TESOL annual convention and decided to conduct a CAE to explore our professional identities. 
● From June 2019 to December 2021, we collected and analyzed data through virtual meetings about our TESOL practitioner identities as transnationals and associated tensions. 
● In our community dialogues, we served as critical friends for each other and engaged in collaborative critical reflections. 
● Narrating and analyzing our stories, we asked questions to push each other’s thinking about the relationship between ‘the self,’ ‘others,’ and ‘cultures’ and helped each other deal with the challenges of writing our autoethnography. 
What the researchers found
 
● Because of our experience in liminal transnational spaces, we faced identity tensions as we crossed borders, pushed back at essentializing categories, and negotiated identities in relation to conflicting ideologies that patrolled these borders. 
● Border-crossing for us, as TESOL practitioners, is a complex, multilayered process that requires continuous personal and professional investment, agency, and emotional labor. 
● CAE provided us with experiential and discursive space to engage in a constant questioning of the normative assumptions in TESOL, both individually and as a community. 
Things to consider
 
● Ideologies of language, gender, race, culture, and religion (amongst others) variably and contextually influence our self-positioning as TESOL professionals. 
● As TTPs, we need to reflect on the interplay between our identities and dominant ideologies in the ‘back home’ context before the border-crossing experience begins: What ideological borders (have) existed at ‘home’ and how (have) they attempted to define us ‘then’ and ‘now’? 
● The CAE writing process could be an important learning activity for members of a professional community to understand their identities and situatedness in the sociopolitical context. 
● The self-reflexive nature of CAE writing could pose critical questions for autoethnographers’ future experiences such as: “How would I analyze that incident if I included it in my CAE? How is my emotional response to this incident informed by my TTP identity?” 