
What this research was about and why it is important 
 We sought to gain deeper insight into shifting understandings of languaging (i.e., dynamic language practices, or understanding language as a verb) that seek to move from understanding bilingualism from a monolingual perspective to a more flexible framing of language learning as connected to dynamic bilingualism. This study highlights Masters-level Teaching English as a Second Language (TESOL) students’ meaning making about translanguaging theory and pedagogy through writing in response to course readings and conversations. TESOL teachers’ developing understandings of translanguaging theory and pedagogy were influenced by (a) previous TESOL experiences, (b) tensions regarding the application of translanguaging theory to practice, and (c) tensions between language and testing within the context of neoliberalism. 
What the researchers did
 
● The focal TESOL methods course was taught from a translanguaging perspective. 
● Teachers composed weekly journal responses to questions in which were expected to connect class learning to their existing knowledge and experiences while also asking themselves how their translanguaging stance could change—or be incorporated into—new experiences. Entries were written for quality, not quantity. Prompts were designed with teachers’ personal experiences in mind. 
● We used an inductive and deductive approach to analyze 12 students’ 132 journal entries during a TESOL methods class. 
● We examined 221 statements across 17 pages of data during which we observed tensions between generally agreed upon tenets of translanguaging theory and teachers’ sharing via writing. 
What the researchers found
 
● We found iterative tensions, showing TESOL teachers’ varying levels of alignment with translanguaging theory. 
● TESOL teachers’ developing understandings of translanguaging as theory were characterized by monolingual mindsets and their own perceived linguistic abilities. 
● TESOL teachers’ developing understandings of translanguaging as pedagogy were characterized by structuralist ideas (i.e., that language is a finite set of features to be mastered) and assumptions of specific contextual factors necessary for translanguaging to be effective. The teachers struggled with the idea of letting go of control and following students’ lead. 
● TESOL teachers’ developing understandings of language and testing in neoliberal contexts were characterized by having grown accustomed to being provided scripted curricula and activities with step-by-step instructions that are expected to be strictly followed. 
Things to consider
 
● The TESOL teachers in this study showed that the process of understanding translanguaging as theory and praxis is not linear, a concept that teacher educators must understand as they engage teachers in translanguaging classrooms. To that end, through writing, teachers shared helpful insights into current and prospective language educators’ developing understandings about translanguaging in light of: 
● Prior engagement with theories of bilingualism grounded in language separation as historically understood in TESOL, and 
● Tensions regarding application of translanguaging theory to praxis within a neoliberal context guiding language teaching and learning in the K-16 context. 