
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Sleep is not just a quiet time dedicated to the rest of body and mind. Research shows that it supports memory and learning. Infants spend a long time asleep and learn language relatively quickly. This review synthetizes current studies that have investigated whether and how sleep is associated with word learning in infancy. Overall, the findings suggest that sleep supports word learning in early childhood, but that several variables still require more research. 
What the researchers did
 
● 16 studies were found that investigated sleep effects on early vocabulary learning in participants under three years of age. 
What the researchers found
 
● Sleep was found to support memory for newly learned words and their associated meanings. 
● Memory is preserved or increased following a nap more than after a similarly long time spent awake, after which memory may decrease or not improve. 
● Sometimes the memory benefits are not visible immediately after a nap but only following a night of sleep, and only in infants who napped after learning the new words. 
● The electrophysiological activity of the sleeping infant brain is associated with post-sleep memory performance at various ages. 
● The development of mature sleep–wake cycles is associated with vocabulary development at later ages. 
Things to consider
 
● Research has been conducted with participants of various ages and with different ways of measuring sleep and word learning, but cross-age and cross-study comparisons are limited. 
● Testing the same participants multiple times provided compelling findings about the relative role of naps and nocturnal sleep. 
● The influence of sleep on several aspects of infant word learning (e.g., such as how sleep helps build associations between newly learned words and previously known ones) is still unexplored. 
● Several child-dependent variables mediate the strength of post-sleep memory benefits (e.g., existing vocabulary size and lexical knowledge, nap habituality). Environmental factors variables (e.g., socioeconomic status) mediate the relationship between the maturation of sleep–wake cycles and subsequent vocabulary growth.         