
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study investigates whether two different types of instruction (input flooding and explicit instruction) can help Mandarin native speakers learn English inverse scope. English sentences such as All the kids didn’t climb the tree are ambiguous: they can mean either “none of the kids climbed the tree” or “it is not the case that all the kids climbed the tree” (which is compatible with some kids climbing but not others); Mandarin native speakers have to learn the latter meaning (generally termed the “inverse-scope reading”) since it does not exist in Mandarin. However, Mandarin native speakers with advanced English proficiency were previously found to have difficulty learning English inverse scope, potentially due to its low frequency in the input, and/or to the complexity of the linguistic phenomenon. Therefore, this study examines whether providing Mandarin native speakers with many examples of the inverse-scope reading via input flooding (increasing the frequency) can help them learn inverse scope, or whether they need explicit instruction in this domain, given the complexity of the phenomenon. The findings can contribute to our understanding of how instruction can facilitate L2 learning of complex, infrequent grammatical phenomena, and which type(s) of instruction may be more effective. 
● 
What the researchers did
 An intervention study, which consisted of three stages, was conducted with Mandarin native speakers learning English as the second language (henceforth referred to as “learners”). 
● Pre-test (Stage I): Learners were tested on their acceptance of English inverse scope, and also completed a background questionnaire and an English proficiency test. Intervention + Immediate Post-test (Stage II, one week after Stage I): During the intervention, learners received either input flooding or explicit instruction: the 15 learners in the input flooding group read passages containing examples of the inverse-scope reading and answered comprehension questions unrelated to inverse scope; the 16 learners in the explicit instruction group received explicit instruction about English inverse scope and completed practice items with feedback. After the intervention, all of the learners were again tested on their acceptance of inverse scope (the immediate post-test) and completed a debriefing questionnaire. The debriefing questionnaire consisted of questions asking learners what they had learned in general, what linguistic structures they had noticed, and whether they had formulated the rule for English inverse scope. There was also a control group of 16 learners who received no intervention but completed the immediate post-test and the debriefing questionnaire. 
● Delayed Post-test (Stage III, one month after Stage II): Learners were tested on their acceptance of inverse scope for the third time and asked to complete the debriefing questionnaire again. The delayed post-test was designed to examine whether the knowledge gained during the intervention was retained over time. 
What the researchers found
 In sum, explicit instruction was found to be more effective than input flooding. Learners’ acceptance of English inverse scope increased after explicit instruction (though slightly decreased one month later in the delayed post-test), while there was only a slight increase in learners’ acceptance of English inverse scope after input flooding. Learners’ responses in the debriefing questionnaires showed that explicit instruction led to noticing and learning of inverse scope. In contrast, learners in the input flooding group did not notice examples of inverse-scope readings and/or did not successfully process the input (some learners reported noticing, yet showed no improvement in the post-tests, which suggests a lack of intake). 
Things to consider
 With input flooding, textual enhancement techniques such as highlighting or underlining can be implemented in future research in order to increase the chance of learners noticing the linguistic phenomenon in question. In addition, having instructors interact with learners during the input flooding, asking learners if they notice the target structure and what they think about its usage in English, may also facilitate noticing and processing of the input. Even though explicit instruction was found to be more effective than input flooding, it is possible that the learning occurred at an explicit level, and that the knowledge was not fully internalize. 