
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Writing has always been a headache for both EFL (English as a Foreign Language) learners and teachers. Teachers may give learners an opportunity to plan before a task to promote writing. However, how should the planning be given, individual or collaborative? Existing research has shown that pre-task planning is beneficial to the subsequent writing, but there is no consensus regarding the how. This study compared how different planning conditions (individual vs. collaborative) might affect EFL learners’ writing performance. Sixty-two college students conducted the task in the sequence of individual reading, individual or collaborative planning, and individual continuation writing (completing the writing of an incomplete story). The study showed that individual planning could be more advantageous to learners’ linguistic performance than collaborative planning in a less demanding continuation writing task. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants were 62 sophomores and juniors (15=females, 47=males) majoring in English at a key southern university in China. They were native Chinese who had received formal instruction of English for about 8 years. 
● Data collection lasted for three weeks. In the first week, a pilot study was conducted to identify appropriate time for and unexpected problems in the main study. In the second and third weeks, the main experiment was performed during the regular 80-minute class time. 
● The experiment followed three steps. Step one was the individual reading session (9 min) where writers read a story adapted from an American novel The Wicked Blacksmith with its ending removed. Step two was the planning session (10 min) where learners were split into two groups to plan their writing either collaboratively or individually. Step three was the individual writing session (50 min) where both groups continued the writing independently with a minimum of 250 words. 
● The questionnaire was conducted to capture participants’ perceptions of the planning and the continuation writing task as supplements to the main study. 
● Twenty focal students (10 from each group) were selected for the retrospective, one-to-one interview in Chinese to explain how collaborative planning potentially contributes to the quality of the written texts in the continuation. 
What the researchers found
 For effects on writing performance 
● The individual planning group used more difficult and varied vocabulary as well as more dependent clauses than the collaborative planning group. 
● The individual planning group wrote slightly more fluently with fewer instances of pause or repair than the collaborative planning group. 
● Both groups showed no large differences in the number of correct sentences. For effects on alignment 
● Both groups borrowed a similar number of keywords from the original story in their continuation writing. 
● The individual planning group used more nouns involving the main characters and objects from the original story than the collaborative planning group. However, both groups used a limited number of verbs in past tense in imitation of the original story. 
● Both groups showed no large differences in imitating phrases and sentences from the original story. For correlations between writing performance and alignment 
● The more difficult vocabulary and sentences both groups used in their continuation writing, the less they borrowed from the reading text. 
Things to consider
 
● The study indicated that collaborative planning was not always better than individual planning for a writing task. Teachers need to know that individual planning should take priority over collaborative planning for less demanding tasks to facilitate L2 writing performance. 
● A longitudinal study is expected to examine the long-term effects of individual and collaborative planning on L2 learning and development. 