
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Previous task-based research with heritage language learners (i.e., early bilinguals who grew up speaking a family/community language that is not a majority language of the society) has focused primarily on learning opportunities, which include, for example, learners engaging in conversations about language forms during meaning-oriented tasks. A particular interest in this area has been on how these learning opportunities emerge from peer interactions between heritage language learners and other heritage language or second language learners. However, very little is known about written texts produced collaboratively by different pair types. The current study, therefore, aimed to investigate accuracy and syntactic complexity of collaborative written texts that were produced across pair types (i.e., heritage-heritage, heritage-second language learners) and interaction mode (i.e., face-to-face, written computer chat). The main finding was that the level of written syntactic complexity can vary according to pair type and interaction mode, supporting theoretical claims of the interaction between learner factors and task environment. Importantly, these results contribute to the growing literature in making pedagogical decisions in pairing heritage and second language learners in mixed classes.   
What the researchers did
 
● The researcher collected data from 13 heritage-second language and 16 heritage-heritage language learner pairs enrolled in advanced Spanish content courses (e.g., literature, linguistics). 
● Each pair completed two decision-making/writing tasks across face-to-face and written computer chat mode. Participants played the role of business consultants in which they needed to either hire an individual for a clothing company (Task A) or lay off an individual for a cellphone company (Task B) in Spain. Upon reaching a decision of the individual to hire or lay off, they needed to compose a formal business letter in Spanish to the CEO of the company justifying their decision for selecting that individual. 
● Participants also completed a proficiency test as well as language background and debriefing questionnaires. 
● The business letters were analyzed for accuracy measures, which included error-free T-units (i.e., any independent clause that can also have subordinate clauses) , accent placement errors per 100 words as well as syntactic complexity indices (mean length of clause, dependent clauses per T-unit and coordinate phrases per T-unit). 
What the researchers found
 
● Regarding syntactic complexity, heritage-heritage pairs overall produced a greater ratio of syntactically complex business letters in comparison to the heritage-second language pairs. Interactions in written computer chat mode, however, led to less syntactically complex texts, especially for the heritage-second language learner pairs. 
● Regarding accuracy, no differences were found between pair types or interactions across mode though a minor trend suggests that heritage-heritage pairs produced more accurate morphosyntactic written texts. 
Things to consider
 
● Heritage learners’ written production may be compromised due to being positioned as a language expert by second language learners. That is, heritage learners resolve most questions about language forms that second language learners trigger in peer interactions. This seems to come at a processing cost for heritage learners to produce more syntactically complex written texts. 
● No differences in holistic or accent placement accuracy was found most likely due to the fact that heritage learners in the current study were more proficient in Spanish, and they completed one to two Spanish writing courses in which they received focused corrective feedback on accent placement and vulnerable morphosyntactic structures. 
● Written computer chat communication was especially more challenging for heritage-second language learner pairs, as evidenced in lesser syntactically complex business letters and heritage learners’ reports on having a more difficult time interacting in the computer mode.  
● Future research needs to replicate these findings to draw firm conclusions regarding the design of task-based language teaching lessons and curricula for heritage language learners. 