
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Second-/foreign-language (L2) acquisition is an arduous process, and L2 learners should be proficient in self-regulated learning (SRL) to sustain their motivation to learn through proactive control and consistent use of efficient strategies. This study explored the self-regulated learning (SRL) strategies (cognitive, metacognitive, and motivational regulation) endorsed by Chinese English-as-a-foreign-language (EFL) readers in a high-stakes testing environment, and also the effect of individual factors (gender, grade, reading proficiency, and motivational beliefs). Students in grades 11 and 12 (n=1,113) completed a reading comprehension test and a questionnaire regarding their strategy use and individual factors, and some (n=16) were randomly selected for follow-up semi-structured interviews. Findings revealed three SRL profiles, characterised by high, medium, and low levels of SRL-strategy use. Self-efficacy (self-belief) and extrinsic (external) motivation most powerfully predicted an individual’s profile membership; all the intrinsic and extrinsic motivation variables were higher for learners from the higher strategy-use profile. Moreover, reading proficiency did not predict profile membership, but more self-regulated students still achieved higher reading scores as a group tendency. 
What the researchers did
 
● In Phase One, the researchers asked the 1,113 participants in grades 11 and 12 to take an English reading comprehension test and complete a questionnaire eliciting their demographic information and self-reported usage of the three focal types of SRL strategies (cognitive, metacognitive, and motivational) and motivational beliefs regarding English reading. The researchers then analysed the data to identify SRL profiles and their relationships with individual factors. 
● In Phase Two, the researchers conducted semi-structured interviews with 16 randomly selected participants from each SRL profile to elicit their experiences, feelings, and opinions relating to their SRL-strategy use and underlying motivations. 
● In Phase Three, the researchers used the data from the two phases, incorporating evidence from the literature, to compare and contrast the outcomes so as to address the research objectives. 
What the researchers found
 
● Three profiles were identified, characterised by high, medium, and low levels of strategy use. Most learners used most of the SRL strategies with a moderate to high frequency, but used memorisation and monitoring/self-evaluation strategies least frequently. 
● Reading proficiency did not significantly predict an individual’s SRL-profile membership; however, the learners in the High Profile still showed significantly higher reading scores than did their counterparts in the other groups. Reading competency varied within each profile. 
● Self-efficacy and extrinsic motivation most significantly predicted SRL-profile membership; intrinsic (internal) and extrinsic (external) motivation variables were significantly higher for learners from the profile of more strategy use. 
Things to consider
 
● The identified associations between individual factors and students’ SRL-strategy use have practical implications for researchers, who may wish to integrate these findings into more effective intervention schemes to facilitate students’ strategic behaviours. 
● The results may help practitioners to personalise their reading instruction on the basis of profile traits to strengthen their teaching efficiency. Extra attention should be paid to commonly weak learning strategies, such as setting goals and monitoring progress. 
● Given the significant effects of intrinsic motivation as a group tendency, teachers should continue to orientate students towards mastery goals and increase their enjoyment of learning to mitigate the pressure associated with preparing for exams. 