
What this research was about and why it is important 
  In order to prepare teachers to use task-based language teaching (TBLT), teacher education programs must train teachers to successfully adapt and create tasks. This research followed the same approach presented by Erlam (2016), who evaluated foreign language teachers’ ability to design tasks by rating whether tasks that the teachers designed included a focus on meaning, required learners to communicate new information or opinions, allowed learners to rely on their own linguistic resources, and had a clear outcome. The current study addressed how well K-12 (roughly age 5 to 18) content teachers were able to design tasks for learners of English. The key findings showed that the content teachers struggled most to incorporate a clear outcome yet they managed to successfully include the three other criteria. This suggests that language learning tasks are ripe for use in K-12 content classrooms. 
What the researchers did
 
● 39 teachers were asked to design two tasks that o required learners to focus on meaning rather than on language forms o required learners to communicate new information or opinions o allowed learners to rely on their own linguistic resources (instead of reading scripts) o had a clear outcome 
● Two researchers rated how well the tasks met the above criteria. 
● The researchers calculated the percentage of tasks that met the majority of the criteria, evaluated which criteria were easiest and most difficult for the teachers to incorporate, and analyzed whether the teachers improved in their ability to design tasks in the second task design. 
What the researchers found
 
● In the first task design, 92% of the tasks satisfied the majority of the four criteria. In the second task design, 95% of the tasks included the majority of the criteria. o The content teachers in this study incorporated more of the task criteria than the foreign language teachers in Erlam (2016). 
● The content teachers struggled most to include an outcome, but consistently incorporated communication gaps and opportunities for learners use their own linguistic resources o Erlam observed the opposite in foreign language teachers: the easiest criteria was including an outcome, while the most difficult were allowing learners to use their own linguistic resources and incorporating a gap 
● There was no improvement from Task 1 to Task 2 in successfully incorporating the four criteria. 
Things to consider
 
● The results suggest that foreign language teachers may focus more on language forms, while the content teachers in this study were able to focus more on meaningful content than on language, allowing for more authentic communication. 
● Based on how successfully the teachers in this study were able to modify existing games (e.g., Battleship, Guess Who?) and task formats (e.g., spot the difference, find someone who . . .), we highly recommend providing teachers access to a repository of tasks and materials that lend themselves well to task-based interaction. 
● Content teachers who are enrolled in teacher education programs need guidance on how to provide linguistic support to their learners. 
● A single TBLT methods course with two opportunities to design and implement tasks did not result in significant improvement in teachers’ ability to incorporate all the task features, which suggests that teachers need ample practice and support. 