
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Educational alternatives, such as dual language (DL) programs, have become widespread in the U.S. Given the diverse nature of these programs, the historical marginalization of minority language speakers in U.S. schools and the increasing number of such programs in locales impacted by recent demographic changes, it is important to examine how perceptions and assumptions about the spaces in which these programs operate affect individuals differently. This study used semi-structured interviews, participant observations and video recordings to examine how ideas and assumptions about space and belonging impacted participants in a DL program distinctly. What the researcher did 
● The researcher interviewed 18 kindergarten children in a DL program. 
● The researcher interviewed all the teachers in a DL program. 
● The researcher visited the DL program twice a week (all day) during the 2017-2018 academic year. 
● The researcher recorded over 100 pages of field notes during the visits to the studied program. 
● School lessons were video recorded twice a month during the 2017-2018 school year of the DL program. 
What the researchers found
 
● Kindergarten children and their teachers co-construct DL spaces using verbal and non-verbal tools. 
● There are processes of segregation and discrimination at work in DL spaces that foreclose opportunities for true integration in these contexts, even in early childhood. 
● Children use their agency to resist, navigate and (re)shape relationships in their multilingual worlds. 
● Researchers must join forces with teachers and students to co-construct true integration within spaces for multilingual education. 
Things to consider
 
● Researchers and teacher educators must support DL teachers in their development of a critical consciousness to help them name and counteract inequities in DL programs. 
● Teachers’ work is significant in claiming or letting children claim the classroom space for certain individuals and not others. 