
What this research was about and why it is important 
 It is well known that second language teachers’ classroom behaviors can be affected by their beliefs about language learning and use and by their personal and professional experiences. Teachers’ beliefs can affect the pedagogical approach they prefer, the feedback they provide to their students, and the language issues that they focus on through teaching. However, no research has to date examined how teachers’ experience and their beliefs are intertwined, and how this combination may affect teachers’ assessments of their students’ second language pronunciation. For example, it might be that teachers who consider pronunciation an attainable goal and teachers with more teaching practice might be more lenient at judging their students’ pronunciation, compared to teachers who hold other beliefs and lack extensive teaching experience. This research focused on teachers enrolled in second language (English) teacher-training programs in Japan, where the vast majority of teachers are non-native speakers of English. The researchers reasoned that, in contexts like Japan, non-native teachers’ own experiences as language learners and their beliefs about second language pronunciation might have particular importance for how teachers assess their students’ pronunciation. The researchers found that teachers with more teaching experience were more skeptical about the teachability of pronunciation and also gave harsher ratings of their students’ accentedness, compared to teachers with less experience and less skeptical beliefs. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers recruited 77 pre-service teachers of English in Japan (aged 18–25), all native speakers of Japanese. 
● The teachers completed an online questionnaire targeting their beliefs about pronunciation instruction. The questions, which were accompanied by agree-disagree sliding scales, focused on teachers’ views about the importance of second language pronunciation, students’ ability to improve their pronunciation, and about which aspects of pronunciation to teach and how to teach them. 
● Teachers also answered questions regarding their previous study-abroad experience, duration and intensity of practice teaching, participation in pronunciation-focused workshops, and enrollment in phonology/phonetics courses. 
● The teachers listened to short audio clips previously recorded by 40 Japanese secondary school students describing (in English) a job they would like to do in the future. The teachers evaluated the clips for comprehensibility (how easy or difficult the speaker is to understand), accentedness (how closely the speaker’s speech approximates that of a native speaker), and fluency (how smoothly or fluidly the speaker speaks), again using sliding scales. 
What the researchers found
 
● Based on the teachers’ responses to beliefs and experience statements, the researchers could divide the teachers into two groups. The first group included teachers who reported less experience with studying abroad and practice teaching but held positive views, believing that second language pronunciation can be easily learned and taught. The second group consisted of teachers with more language learning and teaching experience but who held more skeptical views about the teachability of pronunciation. 
● The two teacher groups did not differ in their assessments of Japanese students’ comprehensibility or fluency. However, the teachers with more experience and more skeptical beliefs gave lower (harsher) accentedness ratings to the students, compared to the assessments of less experienced teachers with more positive beliefs. 
Things to consider
 
● Although the precise relationship between pre-service teachers’ experience, beliefs, and pronunciation assessment is unclear, it appears that teachers’ experience might contribute to shaping their beliefs, with both influencing how harshly or leniently they might assess pronunciation. 
● Teacher educators might encourage future teachers to hold positive views about the teachability of pronunciation, raising teachers’ awareness of how their prior experiences might relate to their beliefs and pedagogical practices.