
What this research was about and why it is important 
  High-frequency words are the most frequent 3,000 words in English such as money and advantage. A good knowledge of high-frequency words is the foundation of successful use of English as a foreign language (EFL). Yet, the factors which affect EFL learners’ knowledge of high-frequency words remains limited. Especially, little research has investigated factors affecting both EFL learners’ breadth and depth of high-frequency words knowledge. To better support EFL learners’ development of high-frequency word knowledge, this study attempted to explore factors such as second / foreign language (L2) exposure, length of study, and L2 proficiency that may affect their breadth and depth of knowledge of these words. The findings revealed that L2 proficiency appears to be an indicator of EFL learners’ vocabulary breadth and depth to some extent. 
What the researchers did
 
● The participants were 201 first-year postgraduate students at a university in the east of China. 
● They were asked to take two tests to measure their knowledge of high-frequency words. Test 1 measured their breadth of knowledge by requiring the participants to link the written form of a high-frequency word with its meaning. Test 2 measured their depth of knowledge by asking the participants to select the word that are likely to co-occur with a high-frequency word. 
● The participants also completed a questionnaire to report their L2 proficiency, types and amount of current exposure to English, and length of studying English. 
What the researchers found
 
● In terms of breadth, the participants were at the mastery level of the most frequent 1,000 words. However, in terms of depth, they had not mastered any levels of high-frequency words. 
● On average, they had 20.22 hours of exposure to various types of L2 input per week in and out of class with reading academic texts being the most frequent out-of-class activity. 
● L2 proficiency affected their breadth of high-frequency word knowledge, whereas it only made a positive contribution to their depth of this knowledge at the most frequent 1,000 word level. 
● The current L2 exposure and length of study English did not seem to have an impact on their vocabulary knowledge of high-frequency words. 
● The participants’ knowledge of high-frequency words (i.e., form-meaning connection) had a positive effect on their collocational knowledge of these words. 
Things to consider
 
● This study revealed that EFL learners’ depth of vocabulary knowledge is likely to lag behind their breadth of that knowledge. 
● Even though the EFL learners at the postgraduate level were regularly exposed to English, there is a lack of significant relationship between their current L2 exposure and vocabulary knowledge of high-frequency words. 
● One possible reason for the lack of a significant relationship between the participants’ length of study and vocabulary knowledge is that their length of studying English is quite similar. 
● The findings provided further evidence for the close relationship between EFL learners’ vocabulary knowledge and L2 proficiency. 
● The study calls for attention to high-frequency vocabulary. EFL learners, even at the postgraduate level, should consistently consolidate and expand their breadth and depth of high-frequency vocabulary knowledge. 