
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Being able to catch the meaning of spoken words when listening in a second language (L2) is a very important and challenging skill for language learners. The ability to recognize and understand the meaning of spoken words is referred to as aural lexical knowledge (i.e., listening vocabulary). We looked at the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening in two different groups of English language learners: Arabic speakers (131 learners) and Japanese speakers (147 learners). The current study was based on a previous study (Cheng, Matthews, Lange and McLean, 2022), which investigated the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening among Chinese speakers. Understanding the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening is important because it can help teachers be strategic in the way words are taught to learners to improve listening skills. For the same reason, it is also important to know how the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening may vary between different groups of language learners. The results of the current study showed that the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening was strong for both Arabic and Japanese speakers. Additionally, there was a particularly strong link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening for the Arabic speakers. 
What the researchers did
 
● We recruited 131 Arabic-speaking and 147 Japanese-speaking university students who were learners of English. 
● All participants completed three tests: A single-word aural vocabulary test, a phrasal verb aural vocabulary test and a global L2 listening test. 
● We then used a statistical approach to determine the strength of the link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening. 
What the researchers found
 
● The relationship between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening was strong for both the Arabic speakers and the Japanese speakers. 
● The relationship between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening was particularly strong for the Arabic speakers. 
● The relationship between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening for the Japanese speakers was similar to the strength of this relationship observed among Chinese speakers in previous research (Cheng, Matthews, Lange and McLean, 2022). 
Things to consider
 
● Aural lexical knowledge is likely to be important to language learners regardless of first language background. 
● It is suggested that L2 learners need to have adequate levels of aural lexical knowledge to promote L2 listening. 
● The form of vocabulary test used in the current study was a meaning recall test, which entailed learners hearing a target word in English and writing its translation in their first language. 
● Teachers and learners of language should not neglect aural lexical knowledge. Language learners need to know what L2 words sound like. 
● The precise reason for the particularly strong link between aural lexical knowledge and L2 listening for the Arabic speakers is unclear and warrants additional research. 
● A potential limitation of the study was that there was a difference in proficiency level between the Arabic and Japanese-speaking participants, which may have influenced results to some degree. 