
What this research was about and why it is important 
  The process of translation has not been adequately discussed, although a range of studies suggest that translation is a valuable pedagogical tool for language learning. Further, the identity of the translator is invisible in much research on translation. This article addressed these gaps and provides insight into the translation process and the construction of translator identity through an investigation of how I, as a translator, navigated my identity in the process of translating English-Bangla dual language books for the multilingual educational resources, Storybooks Canada and Storybooks Bangladesh. I developed a “continuum of equivalence” model to facilitate my decision-making in the translation process and illustrate how I used this model in my English-Bangla translations. Drawing on my self-study, I made the case that the model could enhance the use of translation as a pedagogical tool to promote language learners’ critical language awareness, multicultural knowledge, and creative thinking. 
What the researchers did
 
● Drawing on my self-study of translating five stories from English into Bangla for Storybooks Canada and Storybooks Bangladesh, I investigated the process of translation and the negotiation of my translator identity using narrative inquiry methods. 
● I developed a continuum of equivalence model to illustrate how my translator identity and decisions were negotiated in the process of translation. This model avoids a binary distinction between formal and functional equivalence and posits a continuum between them, in which the left end is the formal equivalence and the right end is the functional equivalence. Formal equivalence focuses on the message of the text, in both form and content, and functional equivalence makes the translated text functionally equivalent to its source culture. 
What the researchers found
 
● By discussing my translation challenges, findings showed how I used formal and functional equivalence, moving back and forth along the continuum of equivalence, while drawing on my capital, investment, and ideology. 
● In my study, when I inclined towards formal equivalence, I wanted the Bangla readers of these translated stories to understand the source language context as much as possible. For example, when I translated proper names, I opted for formal translation considering my linguistic and cultural capital, my understanding of ideologies, and the structure of power of translation guidelines. 
● When I inclined towards functional equivalence (e.g., translation of “lake,” “blessed,” “grandmother,” etc.), I made the Bangla text functionally equivalent to the African culture. My knowledge acquired through reading literature, my understanding of language ideology, and my linguistic and cultural capital helped me in taking these decisions. 
Things to consider
 
● Through the insights of my self-study, we can learn more about how learners as translators navigate their identities in the translation process and compose different translations. 
● Using this model, we can learn more about how learners navigate their translator identity drawing on their linguistic and cultural capital, ideologies, and investment to resolve the translation challenges. The model may also be helpful in understanding if learners incline towards formal or functional equivalence while translating proper names, relationship words, phrases, cultural and religious concepts, etc., and the reasons behind their decisions. 
● Discussing these different choices learners make in the translation process, with reference to the continuum of equivalence model, can promote language learners’ critical language awareness, multicultural knowledge, and creative thinking. 
● Using the model, teachers may support learners to engage in rich conversations about translation issues, language, culture, and identity, which can help enhance the use of translation as a pedagogical tool in a language classroom. 