
What this research was about and why it is important 
 This study examined preservice English as a foreign language teachers’ professional learning activities across different times and locations, ranging from early school contexts to teacher education and teaching contexts. The findings suggested that tensions, emotion, agency, and identity existed in unity as tensions (e.g., between the preservice teachers’ (PSTs) current competence and future goals or between the available resources and their aspirations) triggered emotions that motivated attempts to resolve tensions and construct language teacher identity. Identity, in turn, guided the participants’ efforts in addressing the tensions and emotions. The findings offer theoretical implications including a model of language teachers’ professional learning that is grounded in the unified relationship among tensions–emotion–agency–identity. The study is among the first to address such a multidimensional relationship in examining language teacher identity construction. The study also provides pedagogical implications for mediating language teacher identity development. 
What the researchers did
 
● Participants in this qualitative study were three final-year Vietnamese preservice teachers of English as a foreign language completing a preservice teacher education program at a university. 
● We investigated the participants’ language teacher identity construction (i.e., how teachers make sense of their role within their contexts and how they then choose to act within it). This involved examining the tensions they experienced in their professional becoming activities and the ways in which they responded to the tensions emotionally and agentively. 
● Narrative data including responses to narrative prompts and individual interviews were analysed by identifying patterns (thematic analysis). We used the third-generation cultural historic activity theory (CHAT) as an analytical framework. CHAT was built upon Vygotsky’s concept of mediation and further developed by other researchers such as Leont'ev and Engeström. It has the potential to analyse the various connected activities that the PSTs engaged in to become EFL teachers. 
What the researchers found
 
● The study firstly found three major professional becoming activities that the participants underwent, namely learning English, learning to teach English, and teaching English. The activities spanned across time and locations, were inter-related, and influenced one another. 
● The second major finding is that the participants experienced tensions within and across their professional becoming activities. These tensions triggered emotional and agentive responses, which all interplayed in shaping their professional identity development. 
● Language teacher identity, tensions, emotion and agency existed in unity. 
Things to consider
 
● In examining language teacher identity, we argue that the temporal and spatial dimensions of the activities provide contextualised understandings of the process and offer implications for teacher education in supporting language teachers’ professional becoming. 
● As the English as a foreign language teachers’ professional becoming activities (i.e., learning English, learning to teach English, and teaching English) span over a long time and across many sites, they often create uncertainty and tensions that necessitate emotional and agentive responses to emerge as teachers. 
● Generation 3 CHAT was a powerful analytical lens that enabled the study to gain a nuanced and comprehensive understanding of the dialectical relationships between tensions, emotion, agency and identity development across time and space. 
● It is particularly important for language teacher education to provide contingent professional learning opportunities for preservice teachers from diverse English learning backgrounds. 