
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Teachers of English as a foreign language (EFL) frequently correct students’ spoken errors in their classrooms. However, they are not always aware of how, or what errors they actually correct. This study investigated the beliefs of EFL teachers at primary schools in Vietnam regarding what and how to correct their students’ errors. The study also looked at what the teachers actually did in their classrooms, and whether what they did was aligned with what they thought they should do. The study showed that the teachers’ beliefs and actual behaviours regarding what and how to correct were sometimes incongruent, but it was possible to explain this by considering features of the context. 
What the researchers did
 
● They recruited six volunteer participants who were Vietnamese EFL in-service teachers at six public primary schools in Vietnam. 
● They observed each teacher for four lessons in the same class (grade five – age 10-11). Then they interviewed the teachers individually (31-37 minutes each) about their beliefs regarding the different strategies and targets of oral corrective feedback. 
What the researchers found
 
● According to what the teachers said in the interviews: - Overall, they liked repeating the error with a rising tone, or giving some language cues to encourage the students to self-correct their errors. If they provided the correct forms, they liked to make it explicit. They did not like asking students to clarify their utterances because they believed this may confuse the students. - They thought pronunciation errors were most worthy of correcting, because they considered that helping students to pronounce words correctly was their main responsibility. 
● According to what the teachers did in their teaching: - About 400 spoken errors were observed during 14 hours of teaching, and 177 corrective feedback moves were made by the six teachers. Two-thirds of the feedback moves were made by reformulating the students’ errors (recasts and explicit corrections), and most of them were made explicitly. The remaining one-third took the forms of prompts. - The majority of errors were related to pronunciation or grammar, and around 40% of them were corrected. Not many vocabulary errors were made, but most of them received correction from the teachers. 
Things to consider
 
● In the interviews, the teachers did not report highly valuing recasts, due to their low saliency, but they actually used a large number of recasts in their teaching. However, their recasts were very explicit and salient, which were similar to explicit corrections. It seems that the teachers used explicit didactic recasts because they thought making their corrections explicit was important and helpful. 
● There seems to be some discrepancies between the teachers’ beliefs and practices regarding the error types, but a close look at the context could explain for the actual rates of their CF. They provided a higher rate of CF to vocabulary errors than those to pronunciation and grammar errors because of the perceptual and communicative salience, the total amount of errors for each type, and the repetition of the same errors in the observed lessons. 
● This study suggests that future research may need to pay careful attention to their coding of recasts and explicit corrections. It also suggests that to represent the match or mismatch between teachers’ beliefs and practices regarding oral corrective feedback, a more emic perspective may be needed. 