
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Negative emotions have been found to decrease English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners’ English achievement. Some learners can effectively regulate their negative emotions by using strategies such as rethinking about the bright side of the situation, while other learners use strategies such as hiding their negative emotions. Previous research has shown that learners’ emotional intelligence can influence their choice of emotion regulation strategies, but the role of negative emotion intensity in this relationship remains to be explored. This study investigated the role of negative emotion intensity in the relationship between trait emotional intelligence (trait EI) and the two emotion regulation strategies. Based on questionnaires and follow-up interviews, the study found that trait EI could influence learners’ choice of reevaluating the situation by affecting the negative emotion intensity first. However, the negative emotion intensity did not influence the relationship between trait EI and the suppression of negative emotions. 
What the researchers did
 
● Learners were 391 EFL students from six universities in China. The learners were in different majors and grades and they learned English after class to complete course homework or prepare for the nationwide English exams. The learners perceived themselves as intermediate language learners. 
● Learners completed three questionnaires to assess their trait EI level, negative emotion intensity when learning English, and emotion regulation choices. Their scores were then examined to find out the relationship among the three factors. 
● Ten learners from different genders, majors and English levels were interviewed on how they regulated negative emotions and why they chose to regulate negative emotions in a particular way. The interview recordings were transcribed and carefully read to explore how trait EI influenced their emotion regulation choices. 
What the researchers found
 
● The questionnaires revealed that o Trait EI influenced the emotion regulation choice of reevaluating the situation by affecting the negative emotion intensity first. In other words, learners with high trait EI were more likely to experience low negative emotion intensity, which could further increase the possibility of using this emotion regulation strategy. o Trait EI influenced the emotion regulation choice of suppressing emotions directly without being affected by the negative emotion intensity. 
● The interviews supported the questionnaire results and revealed that o The pathway of trait EI – negative emotion intensity – reevaluating the situation could be influenced by the learners’ attention and engagement. Low negative emotion intensity could make the learners pay enough attention to the situation and increase their participation, both of which enabled the learners to effectively regulate emotions by reevaluating the situation. o The learners’ trait EI directly led to the choice of suppressing emotions no matter how high or low their negative emotion intensity was. 
Things to consider
 
● This study showed that the two types of emotion regulation strategies were influenced by trait EI in different ways. The stable feature of trait EI and cultural factors in the Chinses context could possibly explain why negative emotion intensity did not play a role in the pathway from trait EI to the suppression of emotions. 
● In order to enable the learners to choose the strategy of reevaluating the situation, it is important for teachers to improve the learners’ confidence and motivation to overcome difficulties. This could also be achieved by decreasing the learners’ negative emotion intensity related to exams and communicative activities. 
● More research is needed to find out other possible factors that may influence the pathway from trait EI to emotion regulation choices. 