
What this research was about and why it is important 
 What is the best way to learn a second language? Many people think that the answer is to spend time in a country where the language is spoken, perhaps through a university “study abroad” program. However, study abroad does not guarantee full “immersion” in the second language, and learners often have a difficult time forming relationships with members of the local community. This study investigated the social relationships developed by 27 U.S.-based university learners as they studied abroad in Spain for one semester. Did learners spend time with people from Spain, the U.S., or other countries? What language did they speak when they were together? If several characteristics like these are considered together, it might be possible to identify different patterns of social development. If so, certain patterns may lead learners to advance more, or less, in their language learning. The results of this study identified four patterns in learners’ social relationships abroad. Some patterns led to high levels of second language learning, while others did not. Results also indicated that learners were more likely to develop different patterns of personal relationships depending on the type of study abroad program in which they participated. 
What the researchers did
 
● 27 language learners were recruited from different universities in the U.S. All learners spent one semester studying abroad in Spain. Each learner was enrolled in one of five different study abroad programs. Some programs were large, while others were small; some programs required learners to live with host families, while others did not; and some programs encouraged learners to enroll in academic coursework through local universities, while others offered coursework in private study centers. 
● Learners completed a questionnaire asking about the personal relationships that they developed while in Spain. The questionnaire asked about who learners spent time with; where these people were from; and what language they typically spoke in while they were with these people. It also asked questions to find out if learners typically spent time in big, interconnected social groups, or if they tended to spend time with just one or two people at a time. 
● In order to measure their general progress in second language learning, learners completed a Spanish language proficiency test at the beginning and end of the semester. 
What the researchers found
 
● Most learners spent their time in large, interconnected social groups with peers from their study abroad programs. Of these, some learners spoke in Spanish (the language they were learning) most of the time. These learners progressed more than twice as much in their language learning than those who spoke in English most of the time. This is different from what has been reported by other researchers, who have proposed that, without a teacher present, learners might copy the mistakes of their peers, to the detriment of their second language learning. 
● By far the largest language learning gains were achieved by a small number of learners who were more socially integrated into the local community in Spain. These learners developed a greater number of small social groups that included both local Spanish students as well as peers from their study abroad program. A defining characteristic of this group was that they took a greater number of academic courses through local universities, and not through private study centers. 
● The type of social groups that learners formed appeared to be dependent on their study abroad program of enrollment. Learners who were the most socially integrated were enrolled in larger programs that encouraged them to take a greater number of classes in local universities. 
Things to consider
 
● While it is difficult for many learners to socially integrated into the local community during study abroad, these learners benefit greatly from practicing their second language with each other. 
● Larger study abroad programs, especially if they encourage learners to take courses with local students, appear to facilitate integration into the local community and language learning more than smaller, more insular programs. 