
What this research was about and why it is important 
 Vocabulary knowledge is key to successful communication in a foreign language. Vocabulary experts recommend using first language (L1) translation equivalents (TEs) for establishing initial form–meaning representations for learning new words. However, many teachers and students prefer using the target language only. This study investigated how English word learning in instructed second language (L2) classrooms was affected by learning conditions involving (a) English meaning definitions, (b) TEs in Swedish, and (c) TEs in Swedish and other languages spoken by the students. The results indicate that, immediately after the teaching sessions, students had learned better with Swedish TEs than with English meaning definitions. When tested again two months later, however, this difference had disappeared. 
What the researchers did
 
● An intervention study was carried out in Year 9 in six Swedish secondary school classes in two regions. 
● The study involved a three-week long experiment in which each of the three learning conditions was used for one week. In each week, the students were provided with word lists corresponding to the condition used that week. Students who knew other languages than English and Swedish received word lists in those languages. 
● Before the study, the 74 participating students were tested for their knowledge of 36 infrequent English words (a pretest), and they also completed a test of their general English proficiency. 
● The three experimental weeks were taught by the researchers with the English teacher of each class present and involved the learners working with a text and carrying out word learning activities. At the end of each week, the learners were tested again to see which learning condition potentially led to more word learning (an immediate posttest). The learners were also tested 8–10 weeks after the study period (a delayed posttest). 
What the researchers found
 
● Overall, the conditions providing meaning definitions in the form of Swedish TEs led to more learning in the short term, but not significantly so in the longer term. 
● Scores on the immediate posttest were much higher than on the pretest but dropped on the delayed posttest. 
● The Swedish TE advantage was particularly visible in three of the six classes, whereas in the remaining three classes, the scores were relatively even across the conditions. 
● Learners who scored higher on the English proficiency test were observed to score higher on the word learning tests than learners with lower scores on the proficiency test. 
Things to consider
 
● The students were all multilingual learners; they knew at least one language other than English or Swedish (e.g., a heritage language), and the study was carried out in the learners’ regular classrooms. 
● TEs in students’ L1 or the school language provide an efficient way to start building L2 vocabulary. 
● Systematic repetition of words and their meanings over time is needed for remembering words long term. 