
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Students who are learning English as a foreign language often struggle when faced with how to convey their opinions appropriately in academic writing in English. How can they present their opinions in a way that both readers and specialists in their research fields will find convincing and professional? According to previous studies, teaching second language students the rules for expressing their opinions can encourage them to share their opinions more frequently in writing. Do students, however, arrange the expressions to present their thoughts in the text in a different way after learning the rules? This study compared two classes of students on an academic writing task. The rules for expressing one’s opinions were taught in one class, and not in the other. The results showed that teaching the rules helped students express their personal opinions in a variety of ways and better integrate those of others into their writing. 
What the researchers did
 
● Students were 46 Chinese college students studying English as a foreign language. They were juniors (i.e., Year-3 university students) in two natural classes taking a required course in academic writing in English. 
● Students were taught over seven weeks. Only one class was provided with the rules of opinion expression, covering topics like a) opinion types and strengths (such as strong and weak ways of opinion expression); b) common words and phrases used to convey opinions; 3) exploring the ways the professionals use words and phrases to communicate opinion in academic texts. The other class was taught by the same teacher according to the syllabus which did not include the rules of opinion expression. 
● Two writing tasks were completed by the students, one before, and the other after, the course. Before the course, students wrote a 300-word introduction to a research topic. They revised their writing after the course. 
● The researchers identified and classified the words and phrases related to presenting opinions in student writing. They then examined how students in the two classes used words and phrases of various types and strengths to convey their own opinions and introduce those of others. 
What the researchers found
 For conveying students’ own opinions 
● When compared to those who did not learn the rules of opinion expression, those students who did learn the rules actually used a wider variety of expressions. 
● Around half of the students who learnt the rules were capable of combining strong and weak means to convey their opinions in writing, while students who were not taught the rules preferred to just combine factual statements with strong opinions. For introducing others’ opinions 
● Students who learnt the rules were able to provide more personal explanations when introducing the opinions of others. In contrast, students in the other class usually offer others’ viewpoints without providing any explanation or context. 
● Students in both classes tended to introduce a lot of opinions from unknown sources, such as using the expression, “some people say”, which may compromise the persuasiveness of their writing. 
Things to consider
 
● In this study, students’ knowledge of how professionals use words and expressions to convince readers and convey personal opinions was increased by learning the rules of opinion expression and being exposed to professionals’ academic texts. As a result, students became more purposeful and strategic in conveying personal opinions. 
● This study showed that students who were taught the rules of opinion expression would integrate other people’s opinions with their own perspectives in writing, indicating that they took greater responsibility as authors. Students who were not taught the rules, however, tended to merely mention other people’s ideas. 
● This study also showed that simply teaching the rules of opinion expression may not be enough and that students may need more reading and writing practices to be able to cite clear sources for presenting a more convincing argument in academic writing. 