
What this research was about and why it is important 
  Dialogic instruction, a form of instruction that engages students in meaningful and substantive classroom dialogue, has been shown to benefit students in many ways. However, most of the studies on dialogic instruction are based on researcher interventions, with few studies focusing on the role and agency of classroom teachers as they navigate and negotiate the vagaries of classroom talk especially in contexts such as China where students are more accustomed to a more monologic mode of instruction. To address this gap, the two researchers designed a dialogic instructional programme implemented by the first author and integrated into an English as a Foreign Language (EFL) course in a Chinese university. In this practitioner research, we address the question: To what extent did the teacher-researcher succeed in opening dialogue by means of his dialogic moves? The analysis shows the potential of dialogic instruction in the EFL classroom but also reveals some missed opportunities and challenges. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers designed a fifteen-week EFL instructional programme based on the principles of dialogic instruction. 
● The design of the instructional approach focused on the creation of a dialogic learning environment and the use of particular teacher discourse moves. 
● The first author, who implemented dialogic instruction in a classroom for the first time, is the practitioner teaching an intact English reading class in a Chinese university. 
● The teacher used reading passages and additional teaching materials such as texts, images and video clips to prompt students to share their opinions on specific topics. 
● A coding scheme was developed, which consists of five categories of discourse moves based on the function of elicitation, support, integration, extension and challenging. 
● The transcripts of all the lessons were analysed using this coding system to identify and examine the quality of dialogic moves made by the teacher. 
What the researchers found
 
● ‘Support’ was the most frequently instantiated among the five categories of dialogic moves. 
● Most of the teacher support was in the form of affirmative repetition, acknowledgement and positive evaluation rather than in the form of providing explicit cues or a possible answer. 
● The dialogic move of elicitation used frequently in the lessons was materialized mainly by the use of authentic questions. 
● The dialogic moves of ‘challenging’ and ‘integration’ were used much less compared with other dialogic moves. 
Things to consider
 
● The teacher’s efforts to enact the dialogic moves imbued his lessons with a certain degree of dialogicity. 
● There were some missteps, pitfalls and challenges in the teacher’s dialogic instruction. 
● While the teacher’s uneven use of dialogic moves could be attributed to his lack of experience and/or skill, it could equally reflect the difficulties and challenges of putting the principles of dialogic instruction into situated practice. 
● The teacher’s heavy use of supporting moves may become taken for granted and lose their effectiveness to encourage or motivate students. 
● The limited use of integration has resulted in a paucity of student-student interaction. 
● The use of ‘challenging’ moves may be constrained by some cultural factors which stress the notion of ‘face’ and students’ deference to authority. 
● Future studies could observe and examine the dialogic teaching practices of more practitioners in varied courses and different educational contexts. 