
What this research was about and why it is important 
 An individual’s identity is shaped by different experiences across time and space and shapes their understanding of the world. For professional teachers, their curricular and instructional decisions reflect who they were in the past, are in the present, and will be in the future. Yet, the fluid, multiple, and situated nature of their identities may generate a gap between who they strive to be and who they are expected to be in class. This is often the case for teachers committed to a critical pedagogy, such as the focal participant in this research. Therefore, this case study examined a veteran teacher’s identity, based on his autobiographical experiences, to explain aspects of and reflect on his critical, identity-infused pedagogy. The findings of this study suggested that the teacher’s historicity and immediate social, cultural, and institutional settings are leveraged in the interplay between identity and pedagogy. 
What the researchers did
 
● The researchers worked with the case study participant, a bilingual, Latinx teacher in a public high school in the United States. With an emphasis on learning about history through a critical lens, he taught English as a Second Language (ESL) using two works of historical fiction—namely, Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes and When My Name was Keoko. 
● One of the researchers observed and (audio)recorded the ESL teacher’s class for one school year. Interviews were also conducted with the participant over three years and were fully transcribed for analysis. 
● The researchers identified recurring themes in the data. They also examined the content and form of the language used in the way the focal participant told stories about his experiences and rationale for his teaching practices. 
What the researchers found
 
● The focal teacher identified his critical orientation to the world early in life. He migrated from El Salvador as a child, living in a mostly white neighborhood where he felt socially isolated. At the height of El Salvador's civil war, he returned to the country when he was a student in high school. After that experience, he expanded his worldview and became more engaged in socio-political dynamics. 
● During his university year, the participant implored his professor in the English department to read some Latin American literature in translation as class material. His suggestion was not just rejected, but belittled. This made him feel the ideological dominance of Western culture and further reinforced his identity as a critical actor. 
● As an ESL teacher, the participant decided to teach his students using two historical fiction books that present different perspectives regarding the implications of historical events associated with World War II. However, the demand for standardized curriculum and high-stakes testing increased, and the focal teacher’s critical identity was at odds with public education policies. 
● Overall, categories like criticality, agency, pedagogical decisions, and frustration were discovered throughout the data. 
Things to consider
 
● The various experiences of the ESL teacher and the lifelong process of identifying himself as a critical citizen influenced his beliefs about the power of education for not only developing standard-based knowledge, but also political and historical awareness. This indicates the intersection of historicity, identity, and pedagogy that teachers’ prior experiences mediate their personal and professional identities, which in turn are manifested in their teaching practices. 
● Critical pedagogues are often faced with contradictory policies, which tend to be institutionally reinforced, that make engagement with pertinent social issues difficult. This can result in frustration and can lead teachers to settle into normative practice, enacting submissive identities. 
● Importantly, professional identities are open to revision and are influenced by new experiences and changing contexts. 
● The study suggests teachers be provided the opportunity to reflect on their personal and professional experiences and the approach they take in education to learn about the impact of education policy, school culture, and identity on each other. 